#separator:tab
#html:false
ID cell type:	Eosinophil
ID cell type:	Basophil (because in blood).  Note that mast cells look exactly like this, but in tissue (though different lineage)
ID cell type:	Lymphocyte  Also note the platelet bottom right
ID cell type:	Plasma cell (note that it is jam packed with nucleic acid messengers to make antibodies --> PURPLE, with nucleus on the side)
ID cell type:	Monocyte (kidney-shapped nucleus) --> matures to macrophage in tissue
ID cell type:	"Fibroblasts (""slit-like"")"
What is the point mutation that results in sickle cell disease?	Glutamic acid --> valine in hemoglobin gene
ID cell types:	Clockwise -  neutrophil, eosinophil, basophil, monocyte, plasma cell, lymphocyte
ID the cell type:	"Dendritic cells   Note the red ""feelers"" of the dendritic cell wrapping up everything around it."
Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma: most aggressive B-cell lymphoma   Virus involved  - [...]   Neoplastic cell - [...]	Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma: most aggressive B-cell lymphoma   Virus involved  - EBV (mostly in AIDS patients)   Neoplastic cell - polyclonal B-cell proliferation
[...]:   Epidemiology - women (though not associated with use of contraceptives), but also occurs in males - contrast to hepatic adenomas   Description - firm, well-circumscribed mass usually with a stellate fibrous core containing numerous small bile ducts and having vessels lined by Kupffer cells (asymptomatic, incidental finding on imaging)	Focal Nodular Hyperplasia:   Epidemiology - women (though not associated with use of contraceptives), but also occurs in males - contrast to hepatic adenomas   Description - firm, well-circumscribed mass usually with a stellate fibrous core containing numerous small bile ducts and having vessels lined by Kupffer cells (asymptomatic, incidental finding on imaging)  Benign tumor of the liver (hepatic tumor), which is the second most prevalent tumor of the liver (the first is hepatic hemangioma). It is usually asymptomatic, rarely grows or bleeds, and has no malignant potential. This tumour was once often resected because it was difficult to distinguish from hepatic adenoma, but with modern multiphase imaging is usually now diagnosed by strict imaging criteria and not resected.
Focal Nodular Hyperplasia:   Epidemiology - women (though not associated with use of contraceptives), but also occurs in males - contrast to hepatic adenomas   Description - [...]	Focal Nodular Hyperplasia:   Epidemiology - women (though not associated with use of contraceptives), but also occurs in males - contrast to hepatic adenomas   Description - firm, well-circumscribed mass usually with a stellate fibrous core containing numerous small bile ducts and having vessels lined by Kupffer cells (asymptomatic, incidental finding on imaging)  Benign tumor of the liver (hepatic tumor), which is the second most prevalent tumor of the liver (the first is hepatic hemangioma). It is usually asymptomatic, rarely grows or bleeds, and has no malignant potential. This tumour was once often resected because it was difficult to distinguish from hepatic adenoma, but with modern multiphase imaging is usually now diagnosed by strict imaging criteria and not resected.
Focal Nodular Hyperplasia:   Epidemiology - [...]   Description - firm, well-circumscribed mass usually with a stellate fibrous core containing numerous small bile ducts and having vessels lined by Kupffer cells (asymptomatic, incidental finding on imaging)	Focal Nodular Hyperplasia:   Epidemiology - women (though not associated with use of contraceptives), but also occurs in males - contrast to hepatic adenomas   Description - firm, well-circumscribed mass usually with a stellate fibrous core containing numerous small bile ducts and having vessels lined by Kupffer cells (asymptomatic, incidental finding on imaging)  Benign tumor of the liver (hepatic tumor), which is the second most prevalent tumor of the liver (the first is hepatic hemangioma). It is usually asymptomatic, rarely grows or bleeds, and has no malignant potential. This tumour was once often resected because it was difficult to distinguish from hepatic adenoma, but with modern multiphase imaging is usually now diagnosed by strict imaging criteria and not resected.
[...] - mutation in a JAK-kinase receptor renders erythroblasts hypersensitive to erythropoietin --> increased proliferation    Erythropoietin levels - [...]creased	Polycythemia vera - mutation in a JAK-kinase receptor renders erythroblasts hypersensitive to erythropoietin --> increased proliferation    Erythropoietin levels - decreased
Which is the only microcytic anemia with an increased RDW (red cell distribution width: variation in anisocytosis) due to a mixture of normocytic and microcytic RBCs?    * All other exhibit a uniform decrease in size --> normal RDW *	Iron deficiency anemia
ID the 2 poikilocytes + 2 differertials:	A - acanthocytes (aka spur cells) B - echinocytes   Differentials - dehydration and uremia (e.g. renal failure)
Do patients with G6PD typicaly present with gallstones?	NO, the hemolysis is episodic
Hereditary spherocytosis:    Intrinsic or extrinsic hemolysis? intrinsic Intra- or extravascular hemolysis? extravascular (clearance in splenic cords with a 10-20 day RBC lifetime)   Inheritance:  75% - autosomal dominant 25% - autosomal recessive (more severe and younger presentation because both alleles are affected)   3 main genetic mutations - ankyrin, spectrin and/or band3 (cytoskeletal proteins --> render RBC less deformable)   Lab values:   Hgb - [...] Hct - [...] RBC count - [...] Reticulocyte count - [...] MCV - [...] MCH - [...] MCHC - [...] Blood Film - [...]	Hereditary spherocytosis:    Intrinsic or extrinsic hemolysis? intrinsic Intra- or extravascular hemolysis? extravascular (clearance in splenic cords with a 10-20 day RBC lifetime)   Inheritance:  75% - autosomal dominant 25% - autosomal recessive (more severe and younger presentation because both alleles are affected)   3 main genetic mutations - ankyrin, spectrin and/or band3 (cytoskeletal proteins --> render RBC less deformable)   Lab values:   Hgb - decreased Hct - decreased RBC count - decreased (shorter half-life due to splenic macrophages) Reticulocyte count - increased (>3%) --> hyperplasia in marrow MCV - normal (bimorphic average between macrocytic and microcytic RBCs)) MCH - normal MCHC - increased (smaller cells but same Hgb content) Blood Film - Howell-Jolly Bodies (DNA remnants in patients with autosplenectomies), do not confuse with heinz bodies
[...]:    Intrinsic or extrinsic hemolysis? intrinsic Intra- or extravascular hemolysis? extravascular (clearance in splenic cords with a 10-20 day RBC lifetime)   Inheritance:  75% - autosomal dominant 25% - autosomal recessive (more severe and younger presentation because both alleles are affected)   3 main genetic mutations - ankyrin, spectrin and/or band3 (cytoskeletal proteins --> render RBC less deformable)   Lab values:   Hgb - decreased Hct - decreased RBC count - decreased (shorter half-life due to splenic macrophages) Reticulocyte count - increased (>3%) --> hyperplasia in marrow MCV - normal (bimorphic average between macrocytic and microcytic RBCs)) MCH - normal MCHC - increased (smaller cells but same Hgb content) Blood Film - Howell-Jolly Bodies (DNA remnants in patients with autosplenectomies), do not confuse with heinz bodies	Hereditary spherocytosis:    Intrinsic or extrinsic hemolysis? intrinsic Intra- or extravascular hemolysis? extravascular (clearance in splenic cords with a 10-20 day RBC lifetime)   Inheritance:  75% - autosomal dominant 25% - autosomal recessive (more severe and younger presentation because both alleles are affected)   3 main genetic mutations - ankyrin, spectrin and/or band3 (cytoskeletal proteins --> render RBC less deformable)   Lab values:   Hgb - decreased Hct - decreased RBC count - decreased (shorter half-life due to splenic macrophages) Reticulocyte count - increased (>3%) --> hyperplasia in marrow MCV - normal (bimorphic average between macrocytic and microcytic RBCs)) MCH - normal MCHC - increased (smaller cells but same Hgb content) Blood Film - Howell-Jolly Bodies (DNA remnants in patients with autosplenectomies), do not confuse with heinz bodies
Hereditary spherocytosis:    Intrinsic or extrinsic hemolysis? intrinsic Intra- or extravascular hemolysis? extravascular (clearance in splenic cords with a 10-20 day RBC lifetime)   Inheritance:  75% - autosomal dominant 25% - autosomal recessive (more severe and younger presentation because both alleles are affected)   3 main genetic mutations - [...], [...] and/or [...]   Lab values:   Hgb - decreased Hct - decreased RBC count - decreased (shorter half-life due to splenic macrophages) Reticulocyte count - increased (>3%) --> hyperplasia in marrow MCV - normal (bimorphic average between macrocytic and microcytic RBCs)) MCH - normal MCHC - increased (smaller cells but same Hgb content) Blood Film - Howell-Jolly Bodies (DNA remnants in patients with autosplenectomies), do not confuse with heinz bodies	Hereditary spherocytosis:    Intrinsic or extrinsic hemolysis? intrinsic Intra- or extravascular hemolysis? extravascular (clearance in splenic cords with a 10-20 day RBC lifetime)   Inheritance:  75% - autosomal dominant 25% - autosomal recessive (more severe and younger presentation because both alleles are affected)   3 main genetic mutations - ankyrin, spectrin and/or band3 (cytoskeletal proteins --> render RBC less deformable)   Lab values:   Hgb - decreased Hct - decreased RBC count - decreased (shorter half-life due to splenic macrophages) Reticulocyte count - increased (>3%) --> hyperplasia in marrow MCV - normal (bimorphic average between macrocytic and microcytic RBCs)) MCH - normal MCHC - increased (smaller cells but same Hgb content) Blood Film - Howell-Jolly Bodies (DNA remnants in patients with autosplenectomies), do not confuse with heinz bodies
Hereditary spherocytosis:    Intrinsic or extrinsic hemolysis? intrinsic Intra- or extravascular hemolysis? extravascular (clearance in splenic cords with a 10-20 day RBC lifetime)   Inheritance:  75% - [...] 25% - [...]   3 main genetic mutations - ankyrin, spectrin and/or band3 (cytoskeletal proteins --> render RBC less deformable)   Lab values:   Hgb - decreased Hct - decreased RBC count - decreased (shorter half-life due to splenic macrophages) Reticulocyte count - increased (>3%) --> hyperplasia in marrow MCV - normal (bimorphic average between macrocytic and microcytic RBCs)) MCH - normal MCHC - increased (smaller cells but same Hgb content) Blood Film - Howell-Jolly Bodies (DNA remnants in patients with autosplenectomies), do not confuse with heinz bodies	Hereditary spherocytosis:    Intrinsic or extrinsic hemolysis? intrinsic Intra- or extravascular hemolysis? extravascular (clearance in splenic cords with a 10-20 day RBC lifetime)   Inheritance:  75% - autosomal dominant 25% - autosomal recessive (more severe and younger presentation because both alleles are affected)   3 main genetic mutations - ankyrin, spectrin and/or band3 (cytoskeletal proteins --> render RBC less deformable)   Lab values:   Hgb - decreased Hct - decreased RBC count - decreased (shorter half-life due to splenic macrophages) Reticulocyte count - increased (>3%) --> hyperplasia in marrow MCV - normal (bimorphic average between macrocytic and microcytic RBCs)) MCH - normal MCHC - increased (smaller cells but same Hgb content) Blood Film - Howell-Jolly Bodies (DNA remnants in patients with autosplenectomies), do not confuse with heinz bodies
Hereditary spherocytosis:    Intrinsic or extrinsic hemolysis? [...] Intra- or extravascular hemolysis? [...]   Inheritance:  75% - autosomal dominant 25% - autosomal recessive (more severe and younger presentation because both alleles are affected)   3 main genetic mutations - ankyrin, spectrin and/or band3 (cytoskeletal proteins --> render RBC less deformable)   Lab values:   Hgb - decreased Hct - decreased RBC count - decreased (shorter half-life due to splenic macrophages) Reticulocyte count - increased (>3%) --> hyperplasia in marrow MCV - normal (bimorphic average between macrocytic and microcytic RBCs)) MCH - normal MCHC - increased (smaller cells but same Hgb content) Blood Film - Howell-Jolly Bodies (DNA remnants in patients with autosplenectomies), do not confuse with heinz bodies	Hereditary spherocytosis:    Intrinsic or extrinsic hemolysis? intrinsic Intra- or extravascular hemolysis? extravascular (clearance in splenic cords with a 10-20 day RBC lifetime)   Inheritance:  75% - autosomal dominant 25% - autosomal recessive (more severe and younger presentation because both alleles are affected)   3 main genetic mutations - ankyrin, spectrin and/or band3 (cytoskeletal proteins --> render RBC less deformable)   Lab values:   Hgb - decreased Hct - decreased RBC count - decreased (shorter half-life due to splenic macrophages) Reticulocyte count - increased (>3%) --> hyperplasia in marrow MCV - normal (bimorphic average between macrocytic and microcytic RBCs)) MCH - normal MCHC - increased (smaller cells but same Hgb content) Blood Film - Howell-Jolly Bodies (DNA remnants in patients with autosplenectomies), do not confuse with heinz bodies
ID the pathology:	
[...] are intracellular inclusions seen in RBCs and are described as basophilic nuclear remnants that have not been removed by splenic macrophages (e.g. in hypo/asplenia and hereditary spherocytosis when splenic macrophages are overworked)	Howell-Jolly Bodies are intracellular inclusions seen in RBCs and are described as basophilic nuclear remnants that have not been removed by splenic macrophages (e.g. in hypo/asplenia and hereditary spherocytosis when splenic macrophages are overworked)
[...] patients - RBCs susceptible to hypoxic stress.    [...] patients - RBCs susceptible to oxidative/metabolic stress	Sickle cell patients - RBCs susceptible to hypoxic stress.    G6PD deficiency patients - RBCs susceptible to oxidative/metabolic stress
"Glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G6PD) deficiency:    Inheritance - [...]   Pathogenesis - shortened G6PD half-life --> pentose phosphate pathway rate decreases with time because RBCs can't synthesize new proteins --> decreased intracellular NADPH --> decreased reduction of glutathione --> RBCs susceptibility to oxidative stress increases with time (especially to hydrogen peroxide) --> oxidation of globin sulfhydryl groups --> precipitation into Heinz bodies --> macrophages take a bite --> ""bite cells""   Triggers (oxidants):  Drugs - chloroquine, sulfonamides, nitrofurantoins stressors Food - fava beans Infections - reactive O2 species generated by leukocytes   Presentation - acute intravascular hemolysis of ""old RBCs"" 2-3 hours/days post-oxidant stress --> hemoglobineamia, hemoglobinuria and decreased haptoglobin (EPISODIC, so no splenomegaly or gallstones)   Labs:  Size - normocytic Poikilocytes - bite cells (macrophages eating Heinz bodies) RBC inclusion - Heinz bodies (denatured/oxidized hemoglobin)   Diagnosis:  During hemolysis (screening) - supravital stain for Heinz bodies  After hemolysis (confirmatory) - RBC enzyme analysis"	"Glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G6PD) deficiency:    Inheritance - X-linked recessive (in females, only 50% of RBCs are affected)   Pathogenesis - shortened G6PD half-life --> pentose phosphate pathway rate decreases with time because RBCs can't synthesize new proteins --> decreased intracellular NADPH --> decreased reduction of glutathione --> RBCs susceptibility to oxidative stress increases with time (especially to hydrogen peroxide) --> oxidation of globin sulfhydryl groups --> precipitation into Heinz bodies --> macrophages take a bite --> ""bite cells""   Triggers (oxidants):  Drugs - chloroquine, sulfonamides, nitrofurantoins stressors Food - fava beans Infections - reactive O2 species generated by leukocytes   Presentation - acute intravascular hemolysis of ""old RBCs"" 2-3 hours/days post-oxidant stress --> hemoglobineamia, hemoglobinuria and decreased haptoglobin (EPISODIC, so no splenomegaly or gallstones)   Labs:  Size - normocytic Poikilocytes - bite cells (macrophages eating Heinz bodies) RBC inclusion - Heinz bodies (denatured/oxidized hemoglobin)   Diagnosis:  During hemolysis (screening) - supravital stain for Heinz bodies  After hemolysis (confirmatory) - RBC enzyme analysis"
"Glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G6PD) deficiency:    Inheritance - X-linked recessive (in females, only 50% of RBCs are affected)   Pathogenesis - [...]   Triggers (oxidants):  Drugs - chloroquine, sulfonamides, nitrofurantoins stressors Food - fava beans Infections - reactive O2 species generated by leukocytes   Presentation - acute intravascular hemolysis of ""old RBCs"" 2-3 hours/days post-oxidant stress --> hemoglobineamia, hemoglobinuria and decreased haptoglobin (EPISODIC, so no splenomegaly or gallstones)   Labs:  Size - normocytic Poikilocytes - bite cells (macrophages eating Heinz bodies) RBC inclusion - Heinz bodies (denatured/oxidized hemoglobin)   Diagnosis:  During hemolysis (screening) - supravital stain for Heinz bodies  After hemolysis (confirmatory) - RBC enzyme analysis"	"Glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G6PD) deficiency:    Inheritance - X-linked recessive (in females, only 50% of RBCs are affected)   Pathogenesis - shortened G6PD half-life --> pentose phosphate pathway rate decreases with time because RBCs can't synthesize new proteins --> decreased intracellular NADPH --> decreased reduction of glutathione --> RBCs susceptibility to oxidative stress increases with time (especially to hydrogen peroxide) --> oxidation of globin sulfhydryl groups --> precipitation into Heinz bodies --> macrophages take a bite --> ""bite cells""   Triggers (oxidants):  Drugs - chloroquine, sulfonamides, nitrofurantoins stressors Food - fava beans Infections - reactive O2 species generated by leukocytes   Presentation - acute intravascular hemolysis of ""old RBCs"" 2-3 hours/days post-oxidant stress --> hemoglobineamia, hemoglobinuria and decreased haptoglobin (EPISODIC, so no splenomegaly or gallstones)   Labs:  Size - normocytic Poikilocytes - bite cells (macrophages eating Heinz bodies) RBC inclusion - Heinz bodies (denatured/oxidized hemoglobin)   Diagnosis:  During hemolysis (screening) - supravital stain for Heinz bodies  After hemolysis (confirmatory) - RBC enzyme analysis"
"Glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G6PD) deficiency:    Inheritance - X-linked recessive (in females, only 50% of RBCs are affected)   Pathogenesis - shortened G6PD half-life --> pentose phosphate pathway rate decreases with time because RBCs can't synthesize new proteins --> decreased intracellular NADPH --> decreased reduction of glutathione --> RBCs susceptibility to oxidative stress increases with time (especially to hydrogen peroxide) --> oxidation of globin sulfhydryl groups --> precipitation into Heinz bodies --> macrophages take a bite --> ""bite cells""   Triggers (oxidants):  Drugs - [...] Food - [...] Infections - reactive O2 species generated by [...]   Presentation - acute intravascular hemolysis of ""old RBCs"" 2-3 hours/days post-oxidant stress --> hemoglobineamia, hemoglobinuria and decreased haptoglobin (EPISODIC, so no splenomegaly or gallstones)   Labs:  Size - normocytic Poikilocytes - bite cells (macrophages eating Heinz bodies) RBC inclusion - Heinz bodies (denatured/oxidized hemoglobin)   Diagnosis:  During hemolysis (screening) - supravital stain for Heinz bodies  After hemolysis (confirmatory) - RBC enzyme analysis"	"Glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G6PD) deficiency:    Inheritance - X-linked recessive (in females, only 50% of RBCs are affected)   Pathogenesis - shortened G6PD half-life --> pentose phosphate pathway rate decreases with time because RBCs can't synthesize new proteins --> decreased intracellular NADPH --> decreased reduction of glutathione --> RBCs susceptibility to oxidative stress increases with time (especially to hydrogen peroxide) --> oxidation of globin sulfhydryl groups --> precipitation into Heinz bodies --> macrophages take a bite --> ""bite cells""   Triggers (oxidants):  Drugs - chloroquine, sulfonamides, nitrofurantoins stressors Food - fava beans Infections - reactive O2 species generated by leukocytes   Presentation - acute intravascular hemolysis of ""old RBCs"" 2-3 hours/days post-oxidant stress --> hemoglobineamia, hemoglobinuria and decreased haptoglobin (EPISODIC, so no splenomegaly or gallstones)   Labs:  Size - normocytic Poikilocytes - bite cells (macrophages eating Heinz bodies) RBC inclusion - Heinz bodies (denatured/oxidized hemoglobin)   Diagnosis:  During hemolysis (screening) - supravital stain for Heinz bodies  After hemolysis (confirmatory) - RBC enzyme analysis"
"Glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G6PD) deficiency:    Inheritance - X-linked recessive (in females, only 50% of RBCs are affected)   Pathogenesis - shortened G6PD half-life --> pentose phosphate pathway rate decreases with time because RBCs can't synthesize new proteins --> decreased intracellular NADPH --> decreased reduction of glutathione --> RBCs susceptibility to oxidative stress increases with time (especially to hydrogen peroxide) --> oxidation of globin sulfhydryl groups --> precipitation into Heinz bodies --> macrophages take a bite --> ""bite cells""   Triggers (oxidants):  Drugs - chloroquine, sulfonamides, nitrofurantoins stressors Food - fava beans Infections - reactive O2 species generated by leukocytes   Presentation - [...]   Labs:  Size - normocytic Poikilocytes - bite cells (macrophages eating Heinz bodies) RBC inclusion - Heinz bodies (denatured/oxidized hemoglobin)   Diagnosis:  During hemolysis (screening) - supravital stain for Heinz bodies  After hemolysis (confirmatory) - RBC enzyme analysis"	"Glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G6PD) deficiency:    Inheritance - X-linked recessive (in females, only 50% of RBCs are affected)   Pathogenesis - shortened G6PD half-life --> pentose phosphate pathway rate decreases with time because RBCs can't synthesize new proteins --> decreased intracellular NADPH --> decreased reduction of glutathione --> RBCs susceptibility to oxidative stress increases with time (especially to hydrogen peroxide) --> oxidation of globin sulfhydryl groups --> precipitation into Heinz bodies --> macrophages take a bite --> ""bite cells""   Triggers (oxidants):  Drugs - chloroquine, sulfonamides, nitrofurantoins stressors Food - fava beans Infections - reactive O2 species generated by leukocytes   Presentation - acute intravascular hemolysis of ""old RBCs"" 2-3 hours/days post-oxidant stress --> hemoglobineamia, hemoglobinuria and decreased haptoglobin (EPISODIC, so no splenomegaly or gallstones)   Labs:  Size - normocytic Poikilocytes - bite cells (macrophages eating Heinz bodies) RBC inclusion - Heinz bodies (denatured/oxidized hemoglobin)   Diagnosis:  During hemolysis (screening) - supravital stain for Heinz bodies  After hemolysis (confirmatory) - RBC enzyme analysis"
"Glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G6PD) deficiency:    Inheritance - X-linked recessive (in females, only 50% of RBCs are affected)   Pathogenesis - shortened G6PD half-life --> pentose phosphate pathway rate decreases with time because RBCs can't synthesize new proteins --> decreased intracellular NADPH --> decreased reduction of glutathione --> RBCs susceptibility to oxidative stress increases with time (especially to hydrogen peroxide) --> oxidation of globin sulfhydryl groups --> precipitation into Heinz bodies --> macrophages take a bite --> ""bite cells""   Triggers (oxidants):  Drugs - chloroquine, sulfonamides, nitrofurantoins stressors Food - fava beans Infections - reactive O2 species generated by leukocytes   Presentation - acute intravascular hemolysis of ""old RBCs"" 2-3 hours/days post-oxidant stress --> hemoglobineamia, hemoglobinuria and decreased haptoglobin (EPISODIC, so no splenomegaly or gallstones)   Labs:  Size - [...] Poikilocytes - [...] RBC inclusion - [...]   Diagnosis:  During hemolysis (screening) - supravital stain for Heinz bodies  After hemolysis (confirmatory) - RBC enzyme analysis"	"Glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G6PD) deficiency:    Inheritance - X-linked recessive (in females, only 50% of RBCs are affected)   Pathogenesis - shortened G6PD half-life --> pentose phosphate pathway rate decreases with time because RBCs can't synthesize new proteins --> decreased intracellular NADPH --> decreased reduction of glutathione --> RBCs susceptibility to oxidative stress increases with time (especially to hydrogen peroxide) --> oxidation of globin sulfhydryl groups --> precipitation into Heinz bodies --> macrophages take a bite --> ""bite cells""   Triggers (oxidants):  Drugs - chloroquine, sulfonamides, nitrofurantoins stressors Food - fava beans Infections - reactive O2 species generated by leukocytes   Presentation - acute intravascular hemolysis of ""old RBCs"" 2-3 hours/days post-oxidant stress --> hemoglobineamia, hemoglobinuria and decreased haptoglobin (EPISODIC, so no splenomegaly or gallstones)   Labs:  Size - normocytic Poikilocytes - bite cells (macrophages eating Heinz bodies) RBC inclusion - Heinz bodies (denatured/oxidized hemoglobin)   Diagnosis:  During hemolysis (screening) - supravital stain for Heinz bodies  After hemolysis (confirmatory) - RBC enzyme analysis"
"Glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G6PD) deficiency:    Inheritance - X-linked recessive (in females, only 50% of RBCs are affected)   Pathogenesis - shortened G6PD half-life --> pentose phosphate pathway rate decreases with time because RBCs can't synthesize new proteins --> decreased intracellular NADPH --> decreased reduction of glutathione --> RBCs susceptibility to oxidative stress increases with time (especially to hydrogen peroxide) --> oxidation of globin sulfhydryl groups --> precipitation into Heinz bodies --> macrophages take a bite --> ""bite cells""   Triggers (oxidants):  Drugs - chloroquine, sulfonamides, nitrofurantoins stressors Food - fava beans Infections - reactive O2 species generated by leukocytes   Presentation - acute intravascular hemolysis of ""old RBCs"" 2-3 hours/days post-oxidant stress --> hemoglobineamia, hemoglobinuria and decreased haptoglobin (EPISODIC, so no splenomegaly or gallstones)   Labs:  Size - normocytic Poikilocytes - bite cells (macrophages eating Heinz bodies) RBC inclusion - Heinz bodies (denatured/oxidized hemoglobin)   Diagnosis:  During hemolysis (screening) - [...]  After hemolysis (confirmatory) - [...]"	"Glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G6PD) deficiency:    Inheritance - X-linked recessive (in females, only 50% of RBCs are affected)   Pathogenesis - shortened G6PD half-life --> pentose phosphate pathway rate decreases with time because RBCs can't synthesize new proteins --> decreased intracellular NADPH --> decreased reduction of glutathione --> RBCs susceptibility to oxidative stress increases with time (especially to hydrogen peroxide) --> oxidation of globin sulfhydryl groups --> precipitation into Heinz bodies --> macrophages take a bite --> ""bite cells""   Triggers (oxidants):  Drugs - chloroquine, sulfonamides, nitrofurantoins stressors Food - fava beans Infections - reactive O2 species generated by leukocytes   Presentation - acute intravascular hemolysis of ""old RBCs"" 2-3 hours/days post-oxidant stress --> hemoglobineamia, hemoglobinuria and decreased haptoglobin (EPISODIC, so no splenomegaly or gallstones)   Labs:  Size - normocytic Poikilocytes - bite cells (macrophages eating Heinz bodies) RBC inclusion - Heinz bodies (denatured/oxidized hemoglobin)   Diagnosis:  During hemolysis (screening) - supravital stain for Heinz bodies  After hemolysis (confirmatory) - RBC enzyme analysis"
ID the abnormalities + associated disease:	G6PD deficiency
[...] is a tapeworm that commonly causes Vitamin B12 deficiency through consumption of Vitamin B12 and damage to the terminal ileum.	Diphyllobothrium latum (fish tapeworm) is a tapeworm that commonly causes Vitamin B12 deficiency through consumption of Vitamin B12 and damage to the terminal ileum.
[...] is a complication of Sickle Cell Disease that leads to an increase risk of infection with encapsulated organisms and the formation of Howell-Jolly Bodies in RBCs.	Autosplenectomy is a complication of Sickle Cell Disease that leads to an increase risk of infection with encapsulated organisms and the formation of Howell-Jolly Bodies in RBCs.
ID the pathology:	Sickle cell disease    Note the sickled cells & target cells (due to the hemolysis and autosplenectomy)
[...] thalassemias most often involve gene deletions and are present at birth, whereas [...] thalassemias mostly involve defects in transcription, processing or translation of mRNA and are present at 6-9 months of life (once fetal hemoglobin replaced by adult form)	Alpha thalassemias most often involve gene deletions and are present at birth, whereas beta thalassemias mostly involve defects in transcription, processing or translation of mRNA and are present at 6-9 months of life (once fetal hemoglobin replaced by adult form)  β thalassemia is caused by mutations that nearly all affect the β globin locus and are extremely heterogeneous. Almost every possible defect affecting gene expression at transcription or post-transcriptional level, including translation, have been identified in β thalassemia. These genetic defects lead to a variable reduction in β globin output ranging from a minimal deficit (mild β+ thalassemia alleles) to complete absence (β° thalassemia).
β-Thalassemia Major:    Blood smear:  [...]chromia, [...]cytosis, and [...]cytosis Abnormal cells - target cells Visualization of ribosomes - basophilic stippling Reticulocytes - increased (but less than expected)  HbF - increased, 10-98% in major, variable in minor  HbA2 - increased  HbA - absent in major, decreased to 80-90% in minor (composed of 2x alpha and 2x beta chains)   Splenomegaly? YES (may be as large as liver) Radiology - frontal bossing / crew cut appearance (as in sickle cell disease, due to erythroid hyperplasia)	β-Thalassemia Major:    Blood smear:  Hypochromia, microcytosis, and anisopoikilocytosis Abnormal cells - target cells Visualization of ribosomes - basophilic stippling Reticulocytes - increased (but less than expected)  HbF - increased, 10-98% in major, variable in minor  HbA2 - increased  HbA - absent in major, decreased to 80-90% in minor (composed of 2x alpha and 2x beta chains)   Splenomegaly? YES (may be as large as liver) Radiology - frontal bossing / crew cut appearance (as in sickle cell disease, due to erythroid hyperplasia)
β-Thalassemia Major:    Blood smear:  Hypochromia, microcytosis, and anisopoikilocytosis Abnormal cells - [...] cells Visualization of ribosomes - [...] Reticulocytes - increased (but less than expected)  HbF - increased, 10-98% in major, variable in minor  HbA2 - increased  HbA - absent in major, decreased to 80-90% in minor (composed of 2x alpha and 2x beta chains)   Splenomegaly? YES (may be as large as liver) Radiology - frontal bossing / crew cut appearance (as in sickle cell disease, due to erythroid hyperplasia)	β-Thalassemia Major:    Blood smear:  Hypochromia, microcytosis, and anisopoikilocytosis Abnormal cells - target cells Visualization of ribosomes - basophilic stippling Reticulocytes - increased (but less than expected)  HbF - increased, 10-98% in major, variable in minor  HbA2 - increased  HbA - absent in major, decreased to 80-90% in minor (composed of 2x alpha and 2x beta chains)   Splenomegaly? YES (may be as large as liver) Radiology - frontal bossing / crew cut appearance (as in sickle cell disease, due to erythroid hyperplasia)
β-Thalassemia Major:    Blood smear:  Hypochromia, microcytosis, and anisopoikilocytosis Abnormal cells - target cells Visualization of ribosomes - basophilic stippling Reticulocytes - [...] HbF - [...] HbA2 - [...]  HbA - [...] (composed of 2x alpha and 2x beta chains)   Splenomegaly? YES (may be as large as liver) Radiology - frontal bossing / crew cut appearance (as in sickle cell disease, due to erythroid hyperplasia)	β-Thalassemia Major:    Blood smear:  Hypochromia, microcytosis, and anisopoikilocytosis Abnormal cells - target cells Visualization of ribosomes - basophilic stippling Reticulocytes - increased (but less than expected)  HbF - increased, 10-98% in major, variable in minor  HbA2 - increased  HbA - absent in major, decreased to 80-90% in minor (composed of 2x alpha and 2x beta chains)   Splenomegaly? YES (may be as large as liver) Radiology - frontal bossing / crew cut appearance (as in sickle cell disease, due to erythroid hyperplasia)
β-Thalassemia Major:    Blood smear:  Hypochromia, microcytosis, and anisopoikilocytosis Abnormal cells - target cells Visualization of ribosomes - basophilic stippling Reticulocytes - increased (but less than expected)  HbF - increased, 10-98% in major, variable in minor  HbA2 - increased  HbA - absent in major, decreased to 80-90% in minor (composed of 2x alpha and 2x beta chains)   Splenomegaly? [...] Radiology - [...]	β-Thalassemia Major:    Blood smear:  Hypochromia, microcytosis, and anisopoikilocytosis Abnormal cells - target cells Visualization of ribosomes - basophilic stippling Reticulocytes - increased (but less than expected)  HbF - increased, 10-98% in major, variable in minor  HbA2 - increased  HbA - absent in major, decreased to 80-90% in minor (composed of 2x alpha and 2x beta chains)   Splenomegaly? YES (may be as large as liver) Radiology - frontal bossing / crew cut appearance (as in sickle cell disease, due to erythroid hyperplasia)
Diagnosing paroxysmal nocturnal hemoglobinuria:   Screening - [...]   Confirmatory test - [...]	Diagnosing paroxysmal nocturnal hemoglobinuria:   Screening - sugar water test (sugar water enhances complement attachment to RBCs, leading to RBC hemolysis)   Confirmatory test - Ham test (in vitro complement induced hemolysis in acidified serum)
[...] antibody hemolytic anemias are often drug-induced (penicillin, α-methyldopa, etc) whereas [...] antibody hemolytic anemias often occur during recovery from mycoplasma infection or infectious mononucleosis.	Warm antibody hemolytic anemias are often drug-induced (penicillin, α-methyldopa, etc) whereas cold antibody hemolytic anemias often occur during recovery from mycoplasma infection or infectious mononucleosis.
10% patients taking [...] have anti-Rh antibodies --> risk of developing warm antibody hemolytic anemia	10% patients taking α-methyldopa have anti-Rh antibodies --> risk of developing warm antibody hemolytic anemia
ID the pathology:	Cold Agglutinin Immunohemolytic Anemia
ID the pathology:	Shistocytes, Burr cells, & helmet cells --> trauma-mediated hemolytic anemia
Morphology of pernicious anemia (insidious onset):    Blood:  RBC precursors - [...] RBCs - [...]cytic, [...]chromic (aka macro-[...]) Neutrophils - [...] Overall number of blood cells - [...] Hyperbilirubinemia? [...]    GIT:  Tongue - atrophic glossitis due to loss of villi (shiny, smooth red tongue) Chief cells - atrophy Parietal cells - atrophy Goblet cells - metaplasia --> increased risk of gastric cancer   CNS - degeneration of myelin of the dorsal and lateral tracts of the spinal cord (both sensory and motor deficits such as spastic paraparesis, sensory ataxia and paresthesias)	Morphology of pernicious anemia (insidious onset):    Blood:  RBC precursors - megaloblasts (enlarged cytoplasm) RBCs - macrocytic, normochromic (aka macro-ovalocytes) Neutrophils - hypersegmented Overall number of blood cells - pancytopenia + thrombocytopenia Hyperbilirubinemia? mild    GIT:  Tongue - atrophic glossitis due to loss of villi (shiny, smooth red tongue) Chief cells - atrophy Parietal cells - atrophy Goblet cells - metaplasia --> increased risk of gastric cancer   CNS - degeneration of myelin of the dorsal and lateral tracts of the spinal cord (both sensory and motor deficits such as spastic paraparesis, sensory ataxia and paresthesias)
Morphology of pernicious anemia (insidious onset):    Blood:  RBC precursors - megaloblasts (enlarged cytoplasm) RBCs - macrocytic, normochromic (aka macro-ovalocytes) Neutrophils - hypersegmented Overall number of blood cells - pancytopenia + thrombocytopenia Hyperbilirubinemia? mild    GIT:  Tongue - [...] Chief cells - [...] Parietal cells - [...] Goblet cells - [...]   CNS - degeneration of myelin of the dorsal and lateral tracts of the spinal cord (both sensory and motor deficits such as spastic paraparesis, sensory ataxia and paresthesias)	Morphology of pernicious anemia (insidious onset):    Blood:  RBC precursors - megaloblasts (enlarged cytoplasm) RBCs - macrocytic, normochromic (aka macro-ovalocytes) Neutrophils - hypersegmented Overall number of blood cells - pancytopenia + thrombocytopenia Hyperbilirubinemia? mild    GIT:  Tongue - atrophic glossitis due to loss of villi (shiny, smooth red tongue) Chief cells - atrophy Parietal cells - atrophy Goblet cells - metaplasia --> increased risk of gastric cancer   CNS - degeneration of myelin of the dorsal and lateral tracts of the spinal cord (both sensory and motor deficits such as spastic paraparesis, sensory ataxia and paresthesias)
Morphology of pernicious anemia (insidious onset):    Blood:  RBC precursors - megaloblasts (enlarged cytoplasm) RBCs - macrocytic, normochromic (aka macro-ovalocytes) Neutrophils - hypersegmented Overall number of blood cells - pancytopenia + thrombocytopenia Hyperbilirubinemia? mild    GIT:  Tongue - atrophic glossitis due to loss of villi (shiny, smooth red tongue) Chief cells - atrophy Parietal cells - atrophy Goblet cells - metaplasia --> increased risk of gastric cancer   CNS - [...]	Morphology of pernicious anemia (insidious onset):    Blood:  RBC precursors - megaloblasts (enlarged cytoplasm) RBCs - macrocytic, normochromic (aka macro-ovalocytes) Neutrophils - hypersegmented Overall number of blood cells - pancytopenia + thrombocytopenia Hyperbilirubinemia? mild    GIT:  Tongue - atrophic glossitis due to loss of villi (shiny, smooth red tongue) Chief cells - atrophy Parietal cells - atrophy Goblet cells - metaplasia --> increased risk of gastric cancer   CNS - degeneration of myelin of the dorsal and lateral tracts of the spinal cord (both sensory and motor deficits such as spastic paraparesis, sensory ataxia and paresthesias)
Id the pathology:	Pernicious anemia
ID the pathology (immunofluoresced with antiparietal cell antibodies)	Pernicious anemia
Labs for iron deficiency anemia:      Hgb - [...] Hct - [...] RBC count - [...] MCV - [...] RDW - [...]     Transferrin - increased Transferrin receptors - increased Transferrin saturation - decreased  Total iron binding capacity - increased Serum ferritin - decreased Hepcidin - decreased     RBC morphology - microcytic, hypochromic, poikilocytosis Normoblasts - increased Marrow macrophages stained with prussian blue - no stain (iron stores depleted)	Labs for iron deficiency anemia:      Hgb - decreased Hct - decreased RBC count - increased (RBCs divide into smaller cells in an attempt to concentrate what little Hgb they have) MCV - decreased (see above reason) RDW - increased (mix of normocytic and microcytic cells)     Transferrin - increased Transferrin receptors - increased Transferrin saturation - decreased  Total iron binding capacity - increased Serum ferritin - decreased Hepcidin - decreased     RBC morphology - microcytic, hypochromic, poikilocytosis Normoblasts - increased Marrow macrophages stained with prussian blue - no stain (iron stores depleted)     Normal (left) iron deficiency (right)
Labs for iron deficiency anemia:      Hgb - decreased Hct - decreased RBC count - increased (RBCs divide into smaller cells in an attempt to concentrate what little Hgb they have) MCV - decreased (see above reason) RDW - increased (mix of normocytic and microcytic cells)     Transferrin - increased Transferrin receptors - increased Transferrin saturation - decreased  Total iron binding capacity - increased Serum ferritin - decreased Hepcidin - decreased     RBC morphology - [...]cytic, [...]chromic, poikilocytosis Normoblasts - [...]creased Marrow macrophages stained with prussian blue - [...]	Labs for iron deficiency anemia:      Hgb - decreased Hct - decreased RBC count - increased (RBCs divide into smaller cells in an attempt to concentrate what little Hgb they have) MCV - decreased (see above reason) RDW - increased (mix of normocytic and microcytic cells)     Transferrin - increased Transferrin receptors - increased Transferrin saturation - decreased  Total iron binding capacity - increased Serum ferritin - decreased Hepcidin - decreased     RBC morphology - microcytic, hypochromic, poikilocytosis Normoblasts - increased Marrow macrophages stained with prussian blue - no stain (iron stores depleted)     Normal (left) iron deficiency (right)
Labs for iron deficiency anemia:      Hgb - decreased Hct - decreased RBC count - increased (RBCs divide into smaller cells in an attempt to concentrate what little Hgb they have) MCV - decreased (see above reason) RDW - increased (mix of normocytic and microcytic cells)     Transferrin - [...] Transferrin receptors - [...] Transferrin saturation - [...]  Total iron binding capacity - [...] Serum ferritin - [...] Hepcidin - [...]     RBC morphology - microcytic, hypochromic, poikilocytosis Normoblasts - increased Marrow macrophages stained with prussian blue - no stain (iron stores depleted)	Labs for iron deficiency anemia:      Hgb - decreased Hct - decreased RBC count - increased (RBCs divide into smaller cells in an attempt to concentrate what little Hgb they have) MCV - decreased (see above reason) RDW - increased (mix of normocytic and microcytic cells)     Transferrin - increased Transferrin receptors - increased Transferrin saturation - decreased  Total iron binding capacity - increased Serum ferritin - decreased Hepcidin - decreased     RBC morphology - microcytic, hypochromic, poikilocytosis Normoblasts - increased Marrow macrophages stained with prussian blue - no stain (iron stores depleted)     Normal (left) iron deficiency (right)
ID the pathology:	1) Microcytic, hypochromic RBCs 2) Depleted iron stores in marrow macrophages
ID the pathology and list 5 causes	Ringed sideroblasts in bone marrow (iron accumulates in mitochondria around the nucleus of erythroblasts) --> pathognomonic for sideroblastic anemia.   Acquired Causes: Excessive alcohol use (the most common cause of sideroblastic anemia) Pyridoxine (B6) deficiency (assoc with isoniazid) Lead poisoning Copper deficiency Excess zinc - can indirectly cause sideroblastic anemia by decreasing absorption and increasing excretion of copper.  Isoniazid Chloramphenicol Cycloserine Linezolid
ID the pathology in this bone marrow biopsy:	Bone marrow biopsy essentially devoid of stem cells --> aplastic anemia
Two subtypes of thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura:    TTP - [...]   I-TTP - [...]   Pathogenesis for both - deficiency of ADAMTS 13 --> large complexes of VWF form and cause platelet adhesion + aggregation throughout microvasculature --> thrombocytopenia   Labs:  Bleeding time - increased  PT - normal PTT - normal   Treatment - plasma exchange	Two subtypes of thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura:    TTP - genetic deficiency of an enzyme ADAMTS 13, a metalloproteinase that cleaves large complexes of Von Willibrand Factor   I-TTP - acquired enzyme deficiency due to an antibody formed against the enzyme ADAMTS 13 (not to be confused with ITP where the antibody is formed against glycoproteins on platelets)   Pathogenesis for both - deficiency of ADAMTS 13 --> large complexes of VWF form and cause platelet adhesion + aggregation throughout microvasculature --> thrombocytopenia   Labs:  Bleeding time - increased  PT - normal PTT - normal   Treatment - plasma exchange
Two subtypes of thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura:    TTP - genetic deficiency of an enzyme ADAMTS 13, a metalloproteinase that cleaves large complexes of Von Willibrand Factor   I-TTP - acquired enzyme deficiency due to an antibody formed against the enzyme ADAMTS 13 (not to be confused with ITP where the antibody is formed against glycoproteins on platelets)   Pathogenesis for both - [...]   Labs:  Bleeding time - increased  PT - normal PTT - normal   Treatment - plasma exchange	Two subtypes of thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura:    TTP - genetic deficiency of an enzyme ADAMTS 13, a metalloproteinase that cleaves large complexes of Von Willibrand Factor   I-TTP - acquired enzyme deficiency due to an antibody formed against the enzyme ADAMTS 13 (not to be confused with ITP where the antibody is formed against glycoproteins on platelets)   Pathogenesis for both - deficiency of ADAMTS 13 --> large complexes of VWF form and cause platelet adhesion + aggregation throughout microvasculature --> thrombocytopenia   Labs:  Bleeding time - increased  PT - normal PTT - normal   Treatment - plasma exchange
Two subtypes of thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura:    TTP - genetic deficiency of an enzyme ADAMTS 13, a metalloproteinase that cleaves large complexes of Von Willibrand Factor   I-TTP - acquired enzyme deficiency due to an antibody formed against the enzyme ADAMTS 13 (not to be confused with ITP where the antibody is formed against glycoproteins on platelets)   Pathogenesis for both - deficiency of ADAMTS 13 --> large complexes of VWF form and cause platelet adhesion + aggregation throughout microvasculature --> thrombocytopenia   Labs:  Bleeding time - [...]  PT - [...] PTT - [...]   Treatment - [...]	Two subtypes of thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura:    TTP - genetic deficiency of an enzyme ADAMTS 13, a metalloproteinase that cleaves large complexes of Von Willibrand Factor   I-TTP - acquired enzyme deficiency due to an antibody formed against the enzyme ADAMTS 13 (not to be confused with ITP where the antibody is formed against glycoproteins on platelets)   Pathogenesis for both - deficiency of ADAMTS 13 --> large complexes of VWF form and cause platelet adhesion + aggregation throughout microvasculature --> thrombocytopenia   Labs:  Bleeding time - increased  PT - normal PTT - normal   Treatment - plasma exchange
Hemolytic Uremic Syndrome (HUS):    Infectious etiology in children - [...] and [...]   Infectious pathogenesis - [...]   Presentation - similar to TTP, but does not have neurological symptoms (so left with a tetrad).    Possible cause of death in children - renal failure.   * Adults may get this following drug therapies *	Hemolytic Uremic Syndrome (HUS):    Infectious etiology in children - E coli strain 0157:HT and Shigella   Infectious pathogenesis - Shigatoxin absorbed through inflammed gut --> destroys endothelium --> activation of platelets   Presentation - similar to TTP, but does not have neurological symptoms (so left with a tetrad).    Possible cause of death in children - renal failure.   * Adults may get this following drug therapies *   E.coli or shigella both produce shigatoxin
Hemolytic Uremic Syndrome (HUS):    Infectious etiology in children - E coli strain 0157:HT and Shigella   Infectious pathogenesis - Shigatoxin absorbed through inflammed gut --> destroys endothelium --> activation of platelets   Presentation - similar to TTP, but does not have [...] symptoms (so left with a tetrad).    Possible cause of death in children - [...].   * Adults may get this following drug therapies *	Hemolytic Uremic Syndrome (HUS):    Infectious etiology in children - E coli strain 0157:HT and Shigella   Infectious pathogenesis - Shigatoxin absorbed through inflammed gut --> destroys endothelium --> activation of platelets   Presentation - similar to TTP, but does not have neurological symptoms (so left with a tetrad).    Possible cause of death in children - renal failure.   * Adults may get this following drug therapies *   E.coli or shigella both produce shigatoxin
[...]:    Infectious etiology in children - E coli strain 0157:HT and Shigella   Infectious pathogenesis - Shigatoxin absorbed through inflammed gut --> destroys endothelium --> activation of platelets   Presentation - similar to TTP, but does not have neurological symptoms (so left with a tetrad).    Possible cause of death in children - renal failure.   * Adults may get this following drug therapies *	Hemolytic Uremic Syndrome (HUS):    Infectious etiology in children - E coli strain 0157:HT and Shigella   Infectious pathogenesis - Shigatoxin absorbed through inflammed gut --> destroys endothelium --> activation of platelets   Presentation - similar to TTP, but does not have neurological symptoms (so left with a tetrad).    Possible cause of death in children - renal failure.   * Adults may get this following drug therapies *   E.coli or shigella both produce shigatoxin
[...] Syndrome is characterized by adrenal gland failure and necrosis due to hemorrhaging and DIC.   Most commonly associated infection - meningococcus	Waterhouse-Frederichsen Syndrome is characterized by adrenal gland failure and necrosis due to hemorrhaging and DIC.   Most commonly associated infection - meningococcus
Waterhouse-Frederichsen Syndrome is characterized by [...] failure and necrosis due to hemorrhaging and DIC.   Most commonly associated infection - meningococcus	Waterhouse-Frederichsen Syndrome is characterized by adrenal gland failure and necrosis due to hemorrhaging and DIC.   Most commonly associated infection - meningococcus
Waterhouse-Frederichsen Syndrome is characterized by adrenal gland failure and necrosis due to hemorrhaging and DIC.   Most commonly associated infection - [...]	Waterhouse-Frederichsen Syndrome is characterized by adrenal gland failure and necrosis due to hemorrhaging and DIC.   Most commonly associated infection - meningococcus
Glanzmann thrombasthenia:    Inheritance - [...]    Mutation - [...]   Labs:  Platelet count - normal  Platelet morphology - normal  Bleeding time - increased Response to ADP, epinephrine and collagen - decreased (usually act to upregulate aggregation receptors) Response to ristocetin - normally (acts to upregulate GP-I - vWF adhesion)	Glanzmann thrombasthenia:    Inheritance - autosomal recessive (patients typically present with mucocutaneous bleeding at birth or early in infancy)    Mutation - glycoprotein IIb/IIIa (GP IIb/ IIIa) is deficient of dysfunctional --> defective platelet aggregation   Labs:  Platelet count - normal  Platelet morphology - normal  Bleeding time - increased Response to ADP, epinephrine and collagen - decreased (usually act to upregulate aggregation receptors) Response to ristocetin - normally (acts to upregulate GP-I - vWF adhesion)   Ristocetin is now used solely to assay those functions in vitro in the diagnosis of conditions such as von Willebrand disease (vWD) and Bernard-Soulier syndrome. Platelet agglutination caused by ristocetin can occur only in the presence of von Willebrand factor multimers, so if ristocetin is added to blood lacking the factor (or its receptor—see below), the platelets will not clump.   In an unknown fashion, the antibiotic ristocetin causes von Willebrand factor to bind the platelet receptor glycoprotein Ib (GpIb), so when ristocetin is added to normal blood, it causes agglutination.
[...]:    Inheritance - autosomal recessive (patients typically present with mucocutaneous bleeding at birth or early in infancy)    Mutation - glycoprotein IIb/IIIa (GP IIb/ IIIa) is deficient of dysfunctional --> defective platelet aggregation   Labs:  Platelet count - normal  Platelet morphology - normal  Bleeding time - increased Response to ADP, epinephrine and collagen - decreased (usually act to upregulate aggregation receptors) Response to ristocetin - normally (acts to upregulate GP-I - vWF adhesion)	Glanzmann thrombasthenia:    Inheritance - autosomal recessive (patients typically present with mucocutaneous bleeding at birth or early in infancy)    Mutation - glycoprotein IIb/IIIa (GP IIb/ IIIa) is deficient of dysfunctional --> defective platelet aggregation   Labs:  Platelet count - normal  Platelet morphology - normal  Bleeding time - increased Response to ADP, epinephrine and collagen - decreased (usually act to upregulate aggregation receptors) Response to ristocetin - normally (acts to upregulate GP-I - vWF adhesion)   Ristocetin is now used solely to assay those functions in vitro in the diagnosis of conditions such as von Willebrand disease (vWD) and Bernard-Soulier syndrome. Platelet agglutination caused by ristocetin can occur only in the presence of von Willebrand factor multimers, so if ristocetin is added to blood lacking the factor (or its receptor—see below), the platelets will not clump.   In an unknown fashion, the antibiotic ristocetin causes von Willebrand factor to bind the platelet receptor glycoprotein Ib (GpIb), so when ristocetin is added to normal blood, it causes agglutination.
Glanzmann thrombasthenia:    Inheritance - autosomal recessive (patients typically present with mucocutaneous bleeding at birth or early in infancy)    Mutation - glycoprotein IIb/IIIa (GP IIb/ IIIa) is deficient of dysfunctional --> defective platelet aggregation   Labs:  Platelet count - [...]  Platelet morphology - [...]  Bleeding time - [...] Response to ADP, epinephrine and collagen - [...] Response to ristocetin - [...]	Glanzmann thrombasthenia:    Inheritance - autosomal recessive (patients typically present with mucocutaneous bleeding at birth or early in infancy)    Mutation - glycoprotein IIb/IIIa (GP IIb/ IIIa) is deficient of dysfunctional --> defective platelet aggregation   Labs:  Platelet count - normal  Platelet morphology - normal  Bleeding time - increased Response to ADP, epinephrine and collagen - decreased (usually act to upregulate aggregation receptors) Response to ristocetin - normally (acts to upregulate GP-I - vWF adhesion)   Ristocetin is now used solely to assay those functions in vitro in the diagnosis of conditions such as von Willebrand disease (vWD) and Bernard-Soulier syndrome. Platelet agglutination caused by ristocetin can occur only in the presence of von Willebrand factor multimers, so if ristocetin is added to blood lacking the factor (or its receptor—see below), the platelets will not clump.   In an unknown fashion, the antibiotic ristocetin causes von Willebrand factor to bind the platelet receptor glycoprotein Ib (GpIb), so when ristocetin is added to normal blood, it causes agglutination.
Bernard-Soulier syndrome (aka giant platelet syndrome):     Inheritance - [...]    Mutation - [...]   Presentation - brusing and mucosal bleeding (begins in infancy and continues with varying severty throughout life)   Labs:  Platelet count - usually decreased (decreased platelet lifespan)  Platelet morphology - giant  Bleeding time - increased Response to ADP, epinephrine and collagen - normal Response to ristocetin - decreased   * Automatic platelet function analyzers (PFA) example PFA-100 is the new method of diagnosis and care is generally supportive. *	Bernard-Soulier syndrome (aka giant platelet syndrome):     Inheritance - autosomal recessive (heterozygotes usually have no bleeding)    Mutation - glycoprotein Ib / IX / V complex is deficient of absent --> defective platelet adhesion (receptor for vWF)   Presentation - brusing and mucosal bleeding (begins in infancy and continues with varying severty throughout life)   Labs:  Platelet count - usually decreased (decreased platelet lifespan)  Platelet morphology - giant  Bleeding time - increased Response to ADP, epinephrine and collagen - normal Response to ristocetin - decreased   * Automatic platelet function analyzers (PFA) example PFA-100 is the new method of diagnosis and care is generally supportive. *    Ristocetin is now used solely to assay those functions in vitro in the diagnosis of conditions such as von Willebrand disease (vWD) and Bernard-Soulier syndrome. Platelet agglutination caused by ristocetin can occur only in the presence of von Willebrand factor multimers, so if ristocetin is added to blood lacking the factor (or its receptor—see below), the platelets will not clump.   In an unknown fashion, the antibiotic ristocetin causes von Willebrand factor to bind the platelet receptor glycoprotein Ib (GpIb), so when ristocetin is added to normal blood, it causes agglutination.
Bernard-Soulier syndrome (aka giant platelet syndrome):     Inheritance - autosomal recessive (heterozygotes usually have no bleeding)    Mutation - glycoprotein Ib / IX / V complex is deficient of absent --> defective platelet adhesion (receptor for vWF)   Presentation - brusing and mucosal bleeding (begins in infancy and continues with varying severty throughout life)   Labs:  Platelet count - [...]  Platelet morphology - [...]  Bleeding time - [...] Response to ADP, epinephrine and collagen - [...] Response to ristocetin - [...]   * Automatic platelet function analyzers (PFA) example PFA-100 is the new method of diagnosis and care is generally supportive. *	Bernard-Soulier syndrome (aka giant platelet syndrome):     Inheritance - autosomal recessive (heterozygotes usually have no bleeding)    Mutation - glycoprotein Ib / IX / V complex is deficient of absent --> defective platelet adhesion (receptor for vWF)   Presentation - brusing and mucosal bleeding (begins in infancy and continues with varying severty throughout life)   Labs:  Platelet count - usually decreased (decreased platelet lifespan)  Platelet morphology - giant  Bleeding time - increased Response to ADP, epinephrine and collagen - normal Response to ristocetin - decreased   * Automatic platelet function analyzers (PFA) example PFA-100 is the new method of diagnosis and care is generally supportive. *    Ristocetin is now used solely to assay those functions in vitro in the diagnosis of conditions such as von Willebrand disease (vWD) and Bernard-Soulier syndrome. Platelet agglutination caused by ristocetin can occur only in the presence of von Willebrand factor multimers, so if ristocetin is added to blood lacking the factor (or its receptor—see below), the platelets will not clump.   In an unknown fashion, the antibiotic ristocetin causes von Willebrand factor to bind the platelet receptor glycoprotein Ib (GpIb), so when ristocetin is added to normal blood, it causes agglutination.
Bernard-Soulier syndrome (aka giant platelet syndrome):     Inheritance - autosomal recessive (heterozygotes usually have no bleeding)    Mutation - glycoprotein Ib / IX / V complex is deficient of absent --> defective platelet adhesion (receptor for vWF)   Presentation - [...]   Labs:  Platelet count - usually decreased (decreased platelet lifespan)  Platelet morphology - giant  Bleeding time - increased Response to ADP, epinephrine and collagen - normal Response to ristocetin - decreased   * Automatic platelet function analyzers (PFA) example PFA-100 is the new method of diagnosis and care is generally supportive. *	Bernard-Soulier syndrome (aka giant platelet syndrome):     Inheritance - autosomal recessive (heterozygotes usually have no bleeding)    Mutation - glycoprotein Ib / IX / V complex is deficient of absent --> defective platelet adhesion (receptor for vWF)   Presentation - brusing and mucosal bleeding (begins in infancy and continues with varying severty throughout life)   Labs:  Platelet count - usually decreased (decreased platelet lifespan)  Platelet morphology - giant  Bleeding time - increased Response to ADP, epinephrine and collagen - normal Response to ristocetin - decreased   * Automatic platelet function analyzers (PFA) example PFA-100 is the new method of diagnosis and care is generally supportive. *    Ristocetin is now used solely to assay those functions in vitro in the diagnosis of conditions such as von Willebrand disease (vWD) and Bernard-Soulier syndrome. Platelet agglutination caused by ristocetin can occur only in the presence of von Willebrand factor multimers, so if ristocetin is added to blood lacking the factor (or its receptor—see below), the platelets will not clump.   In an unknown fashion, the antibiotic ristocetin causes von Willebrand factor to bind the platelet receptor glycoprotein Ib (GpIb), so when ristocetin is added to normal blood, it causes agglutination.
[...]:     Inheritance - autosomal recessive (heterozygotes usually have no bleeding)    Mutation - glycoprotein Ib / IX / V complex is deficient of absent --> defective platelet adhesion (receptor for vWF)   Presentation - brusing and mucosal bleeding (begins in infancy and continues with varying severty throughout life)   Labs:  Platelet count - usually decreased (decreased platelet lifespan)  Platelet morphology - giant  Bleeding time - increased Response to ADP, epinephrine and collagen - normal Response to ristocetin - decreased   * Automatic platelet function analyzers (PFA) example PFA-100 is the new method of diagnosis and care is generally supportive. *	Bernard-Soulier syndrome (aka giant platelet syndrome):     Inheritance - autosomal recessive (heterozygotes usually have no bleeding)    Mutation - glycoprotein Ib / IX / V complex is deficient of absent --> defective platelet adhesion (receptor for vWF)   Presentation - brusing and mucosal bleeding (begins in infancy and continues with varying severty throughout life)   Labs:  Platelet count - usually decreased (decreased platelet lifespan)  Platelet morphology - giant  Bleeding time - increased Response to ADP, epinephrine and collagen - normal Response to ristocetin - decreased   * Automatic platelet function analyzers (PFA) example PFA-100 is the new method of diagnosis and care is generally supportive. *    Ristocetin is now used solely to assay those functions in vitro in the diagnosis of conditions such as von Willebrand disease (vWD) and Bernard-Soulier syndrome. Platelet agglutination caused by ristocetin can occur only in the presence of von Willebrand factor multimers, so if ristocetin is added to blood lacking the factor (or its receptor—see below), the platelets will not clump.   In an unknown fashion, the antibiotic ristocetin causes von Willebrand factor to bind the platelet receptor glycoprotein Ib (GpIb), so when ristocetin is added to normal blood, it causes agglutination.
Von Willibrand Disease:    Type I - [...] Type IIA - [...] Type IIB - [...] Type III - [...]     Labs:  Platelet count - normal (Low in type IIB)  Platelet morphology - normal  Bleeding time - increased Response to ADP, epinephrine and collagen - normal Response to ristocetin - decreased	"Von Willibrand Disease:    Type I - Quantitative decrease - autosomal dominant reduction in amount of vWF (mild) Type IIA - Qualitative decrease - autosomal dominant decreased function (loss of function) Type IIB -  Qualitative increase - increased function leading to spontaneous platelet binding and thus rapid clearance of bound platelets and vWF multimers leading to low vWF and low platelets Type III - autosomal recessive reduction in amount of vWF (very severe)     Labs:  Platelet count - normal (Low in type IIB)  Platelet morphology - normal  Bleeding time - increased Response to ADP, epinephrine and collagen - normal Response to ristocetin - decreased    Type IIa is a ""gain of function"" defect. The ability of the qualitatively defective von Willebrand factor to bind to glycoprotein Ib (GPIb) receptor on the platelet membrane is abnormally enhanced, leading to its spontaneous binding to platelets and subsequent rapid clearance of the bound platelets and of the large vWF multimers. Thrombocytopenia may occur. Large vWF multimers are reduced or absent from the circulation.   The ristocetin-induced platelet aggregation (RIPA) is an ex vivo assay for live platelet function. It measures platelet aggregation with the help of von Willebrand factor (vWF) and exogenous antibiotic ristocetin added in a graded fashion. It is similar to the ristocetin cofactor assay but has the added benefit in that it helps in the diagnosis of type 2B/pseudo von Willebrand disease (vWD) and Bernard-Soulier syndrome because it uses patient's live endogenous platelets, whereas ristocetin cofactor assay tests the function of only the vWF and not the platelets.    Ristocetin cofactor assay uses platelet-poor plasma (with vWF but no platelets) and adds ristocetin and exogenous formalin-fixed platelets which can passively agglutinate (but not actively ""aggregate"", as they are dead). Formalin does not allow the extrinsic platelets to secrete the vWF of their α-granules, and thus only the activity of the intrinsic vWF is tested.    Ristocetin is now used solely to assay those functions in vitro in the diagnosis of conditions such as von Willebrand disease (vWD) and Bernard-Soulier syndrome. Platelet agglutination caused by ristocetin can occur only in the presence of von Willebrand factor multimers, so if ristocetin is added to blood lacking the factor (or its receptor—see below), the platelets will not clump.   In an unknown fashion, the antibiotic ristocetin causes von Willebrand factor to bind the platelet receptor glycoprotein Ib (GpIb), so when ristocetin is added to normal blood, it causes agglutination of fixed platelets or initiates the initial agglutination phase of aggregation of live platelets.    Type 1 vWD: hypoactive agglutination occurs  Type 2A vWD: hypoactive agglutination occurs  Type 2B vWD: hyperactive agglutination occurs Type 3 vWD: no agglutination occurs"
[...]:    Type I - Quantitative decrease - autosomal dominant reduction in amount of vWF (mild) Type IIA - Qualitative decrease - autosomal dominant decreased function (loss of function) Type IIB -  Qualitative increase - increased function leading to spontaneous platelet binding and thus rapid clearance of bound platelets and vWF multimers leading to low vWF and low platelets Type III - autosomal recessive reduction in amount of vWF (very severe)     Labs:  Platelet count - normal (Low in type IIB)  Platelet morphology - normal  Bleeding time - increased Response to ADP, epinephrine and collagen - normal Response to ristocetin - decreased	"Von Willibrand Disease:    Type I - Quantitative decrease - autosomal dominant reduction in amount of vWF (mild) Type IIA - Qualitative decrease - autosomal dominant decreased function (loss of function) Type IIB -  Qualitative increase - increased function leading to spontaneous platelet binding and thus rapid clearance of bound platelets and vWF multimers leading to low vWF and low platelets Type III - autosomal recessive reduction in amount of vWF (very severe)     Labs:  Platelet count - normal (Low in type IIB)  Platelet morphology - normal  Bleeding time - increased Response to ADP, epinephrine and collagen - normal Response to ristocetin - decreased    Type IIa is a ""gain of function"" defect. The ability of the qualitatively defective von Willebrand factor to bind to glycoprotein Ib (GPIb) receptor on the platelet membrane is abnormally enhanced, leading to its spontaneous binding to platelets and subsequent rapid clearance of the bound platelets and of the large vWF multimers. Thrombocytopenia may occur. Large vWF multimers are reduced or absent from the circulation.   The ristocetin-induced platelet aggregation (RIPA) is an ex vivo assay for live platelet function. It measures platelet aggregation with the help of von Willebrand factor (vWF) and exogenous antibiotic ristocetin added in a graded fashion. It is similar to the ristocetin cofactor assay but has the added benefit in that it helps in the diagnosis of type 2B/pseudo von Willebrand disease (vWD) and Bernard-Soulier syndrome because it uses patient's live endogenous platelets, whereas ristocetin cofactor assay tests the function of only the vWF and not the platelets.    Ristocetin cofactor assay uses platelet-poor plasma (with vWF but no platelets) and adds ristocetin and exogenous formalin-fixed platelets which can passively agglutinate (but not actively ""aggregate"", as they are dead). Formalin does not allow the extrinsic platelets to secrete the vWF of their α-granules, and thus only the activity of the intrinsic vWF is tested.    Ristocetin is now used solely to assay those functions in vitro in the diagnosis of conditions such as von Willebrand disease (vWD) and Bernard-Soulier syndrome. Platelet agglutination caused by ristocetin can occur only in the presence of von Willebrand factor multimers, so if ristocetin is added to blood lacking the factor (or its receptor—see below), the platelets will not clump.   In an unknown fashion, the antibiotic ristocetin causes von Willebrand factor to bind the platelet receptor glycoprotein Ib (GpIb), so when ristocetin is added to normal blood, it causes agglutination of fixed platelets or initiates the initial agglutination phase of aggregation of live platelets.    Type 1 vWD: hypoactive agglutination occurs  Type 2A vWD: hypoactive agglutination occurs  Type 2B vWD: hyperactive agglutination occurs Type 3 vWD: no agglutination occurs"
Von Willibrand Disease:    Type I - Quantitative decrease - autosomal dominant reduction in amount of vWF (mild) Type IIA - Qualitative decrease - autosomal dominant decreased function (loss of function) Type IIB -  Qualitative increase - increased function leading to spontaneous platelet binding and thus rapid clearance of bound platelets and vWF multimers leading to low vWF and low platelets Type III - autosomal recessive reduction in amount of vWF (very severe)     Labs:  Platelet count - [...]  Platelet morphology - [...]  Bleeding time - [...] Response to ADP, epinephrine and collagen - [...] Response to ristocetin - [...]	"Von Willibrand Disease:    Type I - Quantitative decrease - autosomal dominant reduction in amount of vWF (mild) Type IIA - Qualitative decrease - autosomal dominant decreased function (loss of function) Type IIB -  Qualitative increase - increased function leading to spontaneous platelet binding and thus rapid clearance of bound platelets and vWF multimers leading to low vWF and low platelets Type III - autosomal recessive reduction in amount of vWF (very severe)     Labs:  Platelet count - normal (Low in type IIB)  Platelet morphology - normal  Bleeding time - increased Response to ADP, epinephrine and collagen - normal Response to ristocetin - decreased    Type IIa is a ""gain of function"" defect. The ability of the qualitatively defective von Willebrand factor to bind to glycoprotein Ib (GPIb) receptor on the platelet membrane is abnormally enhanced, leading to its spontaneous binding to platelets and subsequent rapid clearance of the bound platelets and of the large vWF multimers. Thrombocytopenia may occur. Large vWF multimers are reduced or absent from the circulation.   The ristocetin-induced platelet aggregation (RIPA) is an ex vivo assay for live platelet function. It measures platelet aggregation with the help of von Willebrand factor (vWF) and exogenous antibiotic ristocetin added in a graded fashion. It is similar to the ristocetin cofactor assay but has the added benefit in that it helps in the diagnosis of type 2B/pseudo von Willebrand disease (vWD) and Bernard-Soulier syndrome because it uses patient's live endogenous platelets, whereas ristocetin cofactor assay tests the function of only the vWF and not the platelets.    Ristocetin cofactor assay uses platelet-poor plasma (with vWF but no platelets) and adds ristocetin and exogenous formalin-fixed platelets which can passively agglutinate (but not actively ""aggregate"", as they are dead). Formalin does not allow the extrinsic platelets to secrete the vWF of their α-granules, and thus only the activity of the intrinsic vWF is tested.    Ristocetin is now used solely to assay those functions in vitro in the diagnosis of conditions such as von Willebrand disease (vWD) and Bernard-Soulier syndrome. Platelet agglutination caused by ristocetin can occur only in the presence of von Willebrand factor multimers, so if ristocetin is added to blood lacking the factor (or its receptor—see below), the platelets will not clump.   In an unknown fashion, the antibiotic ristocetin causes von Willebrand factor to bind the platelet receptor glycoprotein Ib (GpIb), so when ristocetin is added to normal blood, it causes agglutination of fixed platelets or initiates the initial agglutination phase of aggregation of live platelets.    Type 1 vWD: hypoactive agglutination occurs  Type 2A vWD: hypoactive agglutination occurs  Type 2B vWD: hyperactive agglutination occurs Type 3 vWD: no agglutination occurs"
Which type of Von Willerbrand Disease includes hemarthrosis? (usually seen in hemophilias, but seen here due to severely reduced half life of factor VIII)	Type III - autosomal recessive, severe lack of vWF
Disseminated intravascular coagulation (aka consumption coagulopathy):    Epidemiology - [...]   Etiologies - many, but all involve [...] or [...] ... see picture below   Pathogenesis - endothelial injury (release of tissue factor) or release of thromboplastic substances  --> activation of coagulation pathway --> rapid formation of many small thrombi --> consumption of coagulation factors and platelets --> prone to bleeding   Labs:  Bleeding time - increased PT - increased PTT - increased Fibrinogen - decreased Fibrin split products (e.g. D-dimer) - increased Plasminogen - decreased Plasmin - decreased Protein C - decreased Antithrombin - decreased	Disseminated intravascular coagulation (aka consumption coagulopathy):    Epidemiology - very sick patients (secondary condition)   Etiologies - many, but all involve damaging endothelium (trauma, sepsis, rickettsiease and meningiococcus) inducing the release of tissue factor or release of thromboplastic substances (amniotic fluid, LPS/LOS, granules of leukemic cells, mucin from adenocarcinomas, TNF, IL-1) ... see picture below   Pathogenesis - endothelial injury (release of tissue factor) or release of thromboplastic substances  --> activation of coagulation pathway --> rapid formation of many small thrombi --> consumption of coagulation factors and platelets --> prone to bleeding   Labs:  Bleeding time - increased PT - increased PTT - increased Fibrinogen - decreased Fibrin split products (e.g. D-dimer) - increased Plasminogen - decreased Plasmin - decreased Protein C - decreased Antithrombin - decreased
Disseminated intravascular coagulation (aka consumption coagulopathy):    Epidemiology - very sick patients (secondary condition)   Etiologies - many, but all involve damaging endothelium (trauma, sepsis, rickettsiease and meningiococcus) inducing the release of tissue factor or release of thromboplastic substances (amniotic fluid, LPS/LOS, granules of leukemic cells, mucin from adenocarcinomas, TNF, IL-1) ... see picture below   Pathogenesis - [...]   Labs:  Bleeding time - increased PT - increased PTT - increased Fibrinogen - decreased Fibrin split products (e.g. D-dimer) - increased Plasminogen - decreased Plasmin - decreased Protein C - decreased Antithrombin - decreased	Disseminated intravascular coagulation (aka consumption coagulopathy):    Epidemiology - very sick patients (secondary condition)   Etiologies - many, but all involve damaging endothelium (trauma, sepsis, rickettsiease and meningiococcus) inducing the release of tissue factor or release of thromboplastic substances (amniotic fluid, LPS/LOS, granules of leukemic cells, mucin from adenocarcinomas, TNF, IL-1) ... see picture below   Pathogenesis - endothelial injury (release of tissue factor) or release of thromboplastic substances  --> activation of coagulation pathway --> rapid formation of many small thrombi --> consumption of coagulation factors and platelets --> prone to bleeding   Labs:  Bleeding time - increased PT - increased PTT - increased Fibrinogen - decreased Fibrin split products (e.g. D-dimer) - increased Plasminogen - decreased Plasmin - decreased Protein C - decreased Antithrombin - decreased
Disseminated intravascular coagulation (aka consumption coagulopathy):    Epidemiology - very sick patients (secondary condition)   Etiologies - many, but all involve damaging endothelium (trauma, sepsis, rickettsiease and meningiococcus) inducing the release of tissue factor or release of thromboplastic substances (amniotic fluid, LPS/LOS, granules of leukemic cells, mucin from adenocarcinomas, TNF, IL-1) ... see picture below   Pathogenesis - endothelial injury (release of tissue factor) or release of thromboplastic substances  --> activation of coagulation pathway --> rapid formation of many small thrombi --> consumption of coagulation factors and platelets --> prone to bleeding   Labs:  Bleeding time - [...] PT - [...] PTT - [...] Fibrinogen - [...] Fibrin split products (e.g. D-dimer) - [...] Plasminogen - [...] Plasmin - [...] Protein C - [...] Antithrombin - [...]	Disseminated intravascular coagulation (aka consumption coagulopathy):    Epidemiology - very sick patients (secondary condition)   Etiologies - many, but all involve damaging endothelium (trauma, sepsis, rickettsiease and meningiococcus) inducing the release of tissue factor or release of thromboplastic substances (amniotic fluid, LPS/LOS, granules of leukemic cells, mucin from adenocarcinomas, TNF, IL-1) ... see picture below   Pathogenesis - endothelial injury (release of tissue factor) or release of thromboplastic substances  --> activation of coagulation pathway --> rapid formation of many small thrombi --> consumption of coagulation factors and platelets --> prone to bleeding   Labs:  Bleeding time - increased PT - increased PTT - increased Fibrinogen - decreased Fibrin split products (e.g. D-dimer) - increased Plasminogen - decreased Plasmin - decreased Protein C - decreased Antithrombin - decreased
[...]:    Epidemiology - very sick patients (secondary condition)   Etiologies - many, but all involve damaging endothelium (trauma, sepsis, rickettsiease and meningiococcus) inducing the release of tissue factor or release of thromboplastic substances (amniotic fluid, LPS/LOS, granules of leukemic cells, mucin from adenocarcinomas, TNF, IL-1) ... see picture below   Pathogenesis - endothelial injury (release of tissue factor) or release of thromboplastic substances  --> activation of coagulation pathway --> rapid formation of many small thrombi --> consumption of coagulation factors and platelets --> prone to bleeding   Labs:  Bleeding time - increased PT - increased PTT - increased Fibrinogen - decreased Fibrin split products (e.g. D-dimer) - increased Plasminogen - decreased Plasmin - decreased Protein C - decreased Antithrombin - decreased	Disseminated intravascular coagulation (aka consumption coagulopathy):    Epidemiology - very sick patients (secondary condition)   Etiologies - many, but all involve damaging endothelium (trauma, sepsis, rickettsiease and meningiococcus) inducing the release of tissue factor or release of thromboplastic substances (amniotic fluid, LPS/LOS, granules of leukemic cells, mucin from adenocarcinomas, TNF, IL-1) ... see picture below   Pathogenesis - endothelial injury (release of tissue factor) or release of thromboplastic substances  --> activation of coagulation pathway --> rapid formation of many small thrombi --> consumption of coagulation factors and platelets --> prone to bleeding   Labs:  Bleeding time - increased PT - increased PTT - increased Fibrinogen - decreased Fibrin split products (e.g. D-dimer) - increased Plasminogen - decreased Plasmin - decreased Protein C - decreased Antithrombin - decreased
Leukoerythroblastic reaction:    Peripheral blood smear - [...]   Causes:  Metastasis in males - prostate cancer. Metastasis in females - breast cancer.  Via fibrosis of bone marrow - myelofibrosis and endstage chronic myelogenous leukemia Trauma - multiple comminuted fracture	Leukoerythroblastic reaction:    Peripheral blood smear - immature WBC's (myeloblasts, promyelocytes, myelocytes) and nucleated RBC's (peripheralized secondary to bone marrow infiltrative disease)   Causes:  Metastasis in males - prostate cancer. Metastasis in females - breast cancer.  Via fibrosis of bone marrow - myelofibrosis and endstage chronic myelogenous leukemia Trauma - multiple comminuted fracture
Leukoerythroblastic reaction:    Peripheral blood smear - immature WBC's (myeloblasts, promyelocytes, myelocytes) and nucleated RBC's (peripheralized secondary to bone marrow infiltrative disease)   Causes:  Metastasis in males - [...] cancer. Metastasis in females - [...] cancer.  Via fibrosis of bone marrow - [...] and [...] Trauma - [...]	Leukoerythroblastic reaction:    Peripheral blood smear - immature WBC's (myeloblasts, promyelocytes, myelocytes) and nucleated RBC's (peripheralized secondary to bone marrow infiltrative disease)   Causes:  Metastasis in males - prostate cancer. Metastasis in females - breast cancer.  Via fibrosis of bone marrow - myelofibrosis and endstage chronic myelogenous leukemia Trauma - multiple comminuted fracture
What are the 2 most common lymphoma in adults?	First - diffuse large cell B cell lymphoma Second - follicular lymphoma
Diffuse Large B-cell Lymphoma (DLBCL):    Aggressive? [...] Treatable? [...]   Presentation -  rapidly enlarging mass at either a single nodal or extranodal site --> symptoms due to mass effect   Markers (other than the classic B cell markers CD10, 19 and 20): 30% - BCL6 Indicative of transformed/progressed grade 3 follicular lymphoma (10-20%) - t(14:18) & BCL2 + negative for the marker above   Managment: R-CHOP	Diffuse Large B-cell Lymphoma (DLBCL):    Aggressive? YES (progresses rapidly if not treated) Treatable? YES (lasting remissions seen in ~50% of chemotherapy patients)   Presentation -  rapidly enlarging mass at either a single nodal or extranodal site --> symptoms due to mass effect   Markers (other than the classic B cell markers CD10, 19 and 20): 30% - BCL6 Indicative of transformed/progressed grade 3 follicular lymphoma (10-20%) - t(14:18) & BCL2 + negative for the marker above   Managment: R-CHOP   R-CHOP is a combination of one monoclonal antibody (rituximab), three chemotherapy agents (cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, vincristine), and one steroid (prednisone).
Diffuse Large B-cell Lymphoma (DLBCL):    Aggressive? YES (progresses rapidly if not treated) Treatable? YES (lasting remissions seen in ~50% of chemotherapy patients)   Presentation -  [...]   Markers (other than the classic B cell markers CD10, 19 and 20): 30% - BCL6 Indicative of transformed/progressed grade 3 follicular lymphoma (10-20%) - t(14:18) & BCL2 + negative for the marker above   Managment: R-CHOP	Diffuse Large B-cell Lymphoma (DLBCL):    Aggressive? YES (progresses rapidly if not treated) Treatable? YES (lasting remissions seen in ~50% of chemotherapy patients)   Presentation -  rapidly enlarging mass at either a single nodal or extranodal site --> symptoms due to mass effect   Markers (other than the classic B cell markers CD10, 19 and 20): 30% - BCL6 Indicative of transformed/progressed grade 3 follicular lymphoma (10-20%) - t(14:18) & BCL2 + negative for the marker above   Managment: R-CHOP   R-CHOP is a combination of one monoclonal antibody (rituximab), three chemotherapy agents (cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, vincristine), and one steroid (prednisone).
Diffuse Large B-cell Lymphoma (DLBCL):    Aggressive? YES (progresses rapidly if not treated) Treatable? YES (lasting remissions seen in ~50% of chemotherapy patients)   Presentation -  rapidly enlarging mass at either a single nodal or extranodal site --> symptoms due to mass effect   Markers (other than the classic B cell markers CD10, 19 and 20): 30% - [...] Indicative of transformed/progressed grade 3 follicular lymphoma (10-20%) - t([...]:[...]) & [...] + negative for the marker above   Managment: [...]	Diffuse Large B-cell Lymphoma (DLBCL):    Aggressive? YES (progresses rapidly if not treated) Treatable? YES (lasting remissions seen in ~50% of chemotherapy patients)   Presentation -  rapidly enlarging mass at either a single nodal or extranodal site --> symptoms due to mass effect   Markers (other than the classic B cell markers CD10, 19 and 20): 30% - BCL6 Indicative of transformed/progressed grade 3 follicular lymphoma (10-20%) - t(14:18) & BCL2 + negative for the marker above   Managment: R-CHOP   R-CHOP is a combination of one monoclonal antibody (rituximab), three chemotherapy agents (cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, vincristine), and one steroid (prednisone).
[...]:    Aggressive? YES (progresses rapidly if not treated) Treatable? YES (lasting remissions seen in ~50% of chemotherapy patients)   Presentation -  rapidly enlarging mass at either a single nodal or extranodal site --> symptoms due to mass effect   Markers (other than the classic B cell markers CD10, 19 and 20): 30% - BCL6 Indicative of transformed/progressed grade 3 follicular lymphoma (10-20%) - t(14:18) & BCL2 + negative for the marker above   Managment: R-CHOP	Diffuse Large B-cell Lymphoma (DLBCL):    Aggressive? YES (progresses rapidly if not treated) Treatable? YES (lasting remissions seen in ~50% of chemotherapy patients)   Presentation -  rapidly enlarging mass at either a single nodal or extranodal site --> symptoms due to mass effect   Markers (other than the classic B cell markers CD10, 19 and 20): 30% - BCL6 Indicative of transformed/progressed grade 3 follicular lymphoma (10-20%) - t(14:18) & BCL2 + negative for the marker above   Managment: R-CHOP   R-CHOP is a combination of one monoclonal antibody (rituximab), three chemotherapy agents (cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, vincristine), and one steroid (prednisone).
Mantle zone/cell lymphoma:    Aggressive? [...] Treatment - [...] Diagnostic marker - [...], [...], [...], [...], [...] Translocation [...]	Mantle zone/cell lymphoma:    Aggressive? YES (disseminated generalized lymphadenopathy) Treatment - incurable (survival only a few years) Diagnostic marker - cyclin D1, CD5, CD19, 20, PAX5, CD23 Translocation t[11:14]
[...]:    Aggressive? YES (disseminated generalized lymphadenopathy) Treatment - incurable (survival only a few years) Diagnostic marker - cyclin D1, CD5, CD19, 20, PAX5, CD23 Translocation t[11:14]	Mantle zone/cell lymphoma:    Aggressive? YES (disseminated generalized lymphadenopathy) Treatment - incurable (survival only a few years) Diagnostic marker - cyclin D1, CD5, CD19, 20, PAX5, CD23 Translocation t[11:14]
Anaplastic large cell lymphoma:    Neoplastic cells - [...] Major marker (defined by rearrangements of this gene) - [...] Additional gene rearrangement found in 90% of cases - [...]   Additional positive marker - CD30 Unexpected/unusual negative marker for most cases - CD3 (though the cells of origin are T cells)   Classic cells - hallmark cells, with horse-shoe/embryoid nuclei Anatomy - often cluster around veins and lymphoid sinusoids, mimicking metastatic cancer.	Anaplastic large cell lymphoma:    Neoplastic cells - T cells Major marker (defined by rearrangements of this gene) - Anaplastic Lymphoma Kinase (ALK) Additional gene rearrangement found in 90% of cases - TCR   Additional positive marker - CD30 Unexpected/unusual negative marker for most cases - CD3 (though the cells of origin are T cells)   Classic cells - hallmark cells, with horse-shoe/embryoid nuclei Anatomy - often cluster around veins and lymphoid sinusoids, mimicking metastatic cancer.
Anaplastic large cell lymphoma:    Neoplastic cells - T cells Major marker (defined by rearrangements of this gene) - Anaplastic Lymphoma Kinase (ALK) Additional gene rearrangement found in 90% of cases - TCR   Additional positive marker - CD[...] Unexpected/unusual negative marker for most cases - CD[...]   Classic cells - hallmark cells, with horse-shoe/embryoid nuclei Anatomy - often cluster around veins and lymphoid sinusoids, mimicking metastatic cancer.	Anaplastic large cell lymphoma:    Neoplastic cells - T cells Major marker (defined by rearrangements of this gene) - Anaplastic Lymphoma Kinase (ALK) Additional gene rearrangement found in 90% of cases - TCR   Additional positive marker - CD30 Unexpected/unusual negative marker for most cases - CD3 (though the cells of origin are T cells)   Classic cells - hallmark cells, with horse-shoe/embryoid nuclei Anatomy - often cluster around veins and lymphoid sinusoids, mimicking metastatic cancer.
Anaplastic large cell lymphoma:    Neoplastic cells - T cells Major marker (defined by rearrangements of this gene) - Anaplastic Lymphoma Kinase (ALK) Additional gene rearrangement found in 90% of cases - TCR   Additional positive marker - CD30 Unexpected/unusual negative marker for most cases - CD3 (though the cells of origin are T cells)   Classic cells - [...] cells, with [...] nuclei Anatomy - often cluster around veins and lymphoid sinusoids, mimicking metastatic cancer.	Anaplastic large cell lymphoma:    Neoplastic cells - T cells Major marker (defined by rearrangements of this gene) - Anaplastic Lymphoma Kinase (ALK) Additional gene rearrangement found in 90% of cases - TCR   Additional positive marker - CD30 Unexpected/unusual negative marker for most cases - CD3 (though the cells of origin are T cells)   Classic cells - hallmark cells, with horse-shoe/embryoid nuclei Anatomy - often cluster around veins and lymphoid sinusoids, mimicking metastatic cancer.
[...]:    Neoplastic cells - T cells Major marker (defined by rearrangements of this gene) - Anaplastic Lymphoma Kinase (ALK) Additional gene rearrangement found in 90% of cases - TCR   Additional positive marker - CD30 Unexpected/unusual negative marker for most cases - CD3 (though the cells of origin are T cells)   Classic cells - hallmark cells, with horse-shoe/embryoid nuclei Anatomy - often cluster around veins and lymphoid sinusoids, mimicking metastatic cancer.	Anaplastic large cell lymphoma:    Neoplastic cells - T cells Major marker (defined by rearrangements of this gene) - Anaplastic Lymphoma Kinase (ALK) Additional gene rearrangement found in 90% of cases - TCR   Additional positive marker - CD30 Unexpected/unusual negative marker for most cases - CD3 (though the cells of origin are T cells)   Classic cells - hallmark cells, with horse-shoe/embryoid nuclei Anatomy - often cluster around veins and lymphoid sinusoids, mimicking metastatic cancer.
Pathogenesis of Hodgkin's lymphomas:    Associated virus (though not in 100% of cases) - [...]   Activated signalling pathway - [...]   Secretion of cytoines and chemokines by [...] cells --> attract reactive cells to support the growth and survival of tumors cells. Most Abundant Cell type: [...], especially in proximity to RS cells.	Pathogenesis of Hodgkin's lymphomas:    Associated virus (though not in 100% of cases) - EBV   Activated signalling pathway - NF-kB and JAK-STAT   Secretion of cytoines and chemokines by Reed-Sternberg (RS) cells --> attract reactive cells to support the growth and survival of tumors cells. Most Abundant Cell type: CD4+TH2 & CD4+Treg, especially in proximity to RS cells.
WHO classification of Hodgkin lymphomas:    4 classical forms - [...], [...], [...] and [...] 1 non-classical form - lymphocyte predominance (nodular lymphocyte predominant)    Markers for the RS cells in classical forms:  Positive - CD15, CD30 and PAX5 Negative - all B cell markers (e.g. CD20, CD45, BCL6) and CD45 (leukocyte common antigen)   * The immunophenotype (markers) for the non-classical form are the exact opposite of the classical forms (positive <--> negative) *	WHO classification of Hodgkin lymphomas:    4 classical forms - nodular sclerosis, mixed cellularity, lymphocyte-rich and lymphocyte depletion 1 non-classical form - lymphocyte predominance (nodular lymphocyte predominant)    Markers for the RS cells in classical forms:  Positive - CD15, CD30 and PAX5 Negative - all B cell markers (e.g. CD20, CD45, BCL6) and CD45 (leukocyte common antigen)   * The immunophenotype (markers) for the non-classical form are the exact opposite of the classical forms (positive <--> negative) *
WHO classification of Hodgkin lymphomas:    4 classical forms - nodular sclerosis, mixed cellularity, lymphocyte-rich and lymphocyte depletion 1 non-classical form - [...]   Markers for the RS cells in classical forms:  Positive - CD15, CD30 and PAX5 Negative - all B cell markers (e.g. CD20, CD45, BCL6) and CD45 (leukocyte common antigen)   * The immunophenotype (markers) for the non-classical form are the exact opposite of the classical forms (positive <--> negative) *	WHO classification of Hodgkin lymphomas:    4 classical forms - nodular sclerosis, mixed cellularity, lymphocyte-rich and lymphocyte depletion 1 non-classical form - lymphocyte predominance (nodular lymphocyte predominant)    Markers for the RS cells in classical forms:  Positive - CD15, CD30 and PAX5 Negative - all B cell markers (e.g. CD20, CD45, BCL6) and CD45 (leukocyte common antigen)   * The immunophenotype (markers) for the non-classical form are the exact opposite of the classical forms (positive <--> negative) *
WHO classification of Hodgkin lymphomas:    4 classical forms - nodular sclerosis, mixed cellularity, lymphocyte-rich and lymphocyte depletion 1 non-classical form - lymphocyte predominance (nodular lymphocyte predominant)    Markers for the RS cells in classical forms:  Positive - CD[...], CD[...] and [...] Negative - all B cell markers (e.g. CD20, CD45, BCL6) and CD45 (leukocyte common antigen)   * The immunophenotype (markers) for the non-classical form are the exact opposite of the classical forms (positive <--> negative) *	WHO classification of Hodgkin lymphomas:    4 classical forms - nodular sclerosis, mixed cellularity, lymphocyte-rich and lymphocyte depletion 1 non-classical form - lymphocyte predominance (nodular lymphocyte predominant)    Markers for the RS cells in classical forms:  Positive - CD15, CD30 and PAX5 Negative - all B cell markers (e.g. CD20, CD45, BCL6) and CD45 (leukocyte common antigen)   * The immunophenotype (markers) for the non-classical form are the exact opposite of the classical forms (positive <--> negative) *
WHO classification of Hodgkin lymphomas:    4 classical forms - nodular sclerosis, mixed cellularity, lymphocyte-rich and lymphocyte depletion 1 non-classical form - lymphocyte predominance (nodular lymphocyte predominant)    Markers for the RS cells in classical forms:  Positive - CD15, CD30 and PAX5 Negative - [...] and CD[...]   * The immunophenotype (markers) for the non-classical form are the exact opposite of the classical forms (positive <--> negative) *	WHO classification of Hodgkin lymphomas:    4 classical forms - nodular sclerosis, mixed cellularity, lymphocyte-rich and lymphocyte depletion 1 non-classical form - lymphocyte predominance (nodular lymphocyte predominant)    Markers for the RS cells in classical forms:  Positive - CD15, CD30 and PAX5 Negative - all B cell markers (e.g. CD20, CD45, BCL6) and CD45 (leukocyte common antigen)   * The immunophenotype (markers) for the non-classical form are the exact opposite of the classical forms (positive <--> negative) *
WHO classification of Hodgkin lymphomas:    4 classical forms - nodular sclerosis, mixed cellularity, lymphocyte-rich and lymphocyte depletion 1 non-classical form - lymphocyte predominance (nodular lymphocyte predominant)    Markers for the RS cells in classical forms:  Positive - CD15, CD30 and PAX5 Negative - all B cell markers (e.g. CD20, CD45, BCL6) and CD45 (leukocyte common antigen)   * The immunophenotype (markers) for the non-classical form are [...] *	WHO classification of Hodgkin lymphomas:    4 classical forms - nodular sclerosis, mixed cellularity, lymphocyte-rich and lymphocyte depletion 1 non-classical form - lymphocyte predominance (nodular lymphocyte predominant)    Markers for the RS cells in classical forms:  Positive - CD15, CD30 and PAX5 Negative - all B cell markers (e.g. CD20, CD45, BCL6) and CD45 (leukocyte common antigen)   * The immunophenotype (markers) for the non-classical form are the exact opposite of the classical forms (positive <--> negative) *
Presence of neutrophils and eosinophils in a lymph node.  What do you suspect?	Hodgkin Lymphoma   Mostly eosinophils --> most likely mixed cellularity type
Lymphocyte-depleted form of Hodgkin's lymphoma (least common form):   Characteristic cells - [...]   Immunophenotype:  Positive - CD15 and CD30  Negative - CD45 and BLC-2 and 6 (important for DDX from diffuse large cell lymphoma)    Association with EBV - 90% Additional viral association - HIV (in old patients) Prognosis - poor (worst of all subtypes)	Lymphocyte-depleted form of Hodgkin's lymphoma (least common form):   Characteristic cells - classic RS cell abundant   Immunophenotype:  Positive - CD15 and CD30  Negative - CD45 and BLC-2 and 6 (important for DDX from diffuse large cell lymphoma)    Association with EBV - 90% Additional viral association - HIV (in old patients) Prognosis - poor (worst of all subtypes)
Lymphocyte-depleted form of Hodgkin's lymphoma (least common form):   Characteristic cells - classic RS cell abundant   Immunophenotype:  Positive - CD[...] and CD[...]  Negative - CD[...] and [...] (important for DDX from diffuse large cell lymphoma)    Association with EBV - 90% Additional viral association - HIV (in old patients) Prognosis - poor (worst of all subtypes)	Lymphocyte-depleted form of Hodgkin's lymphoma (least common form):   Characteristic cells - classic RS cell abundant   Immunophenotype:  Positive - CD15 and CD30  Negative - CD45 and BLC-2 and 6 (important for DDX from diffuse large cell lymphoma)    Association with EBV - 90% Additional viral association - HIV (in old patients) Prognosis - poor (worst of all subtypes)
Lymphocyte-depleted form of Hodgkin's lymphoma (least common form):   Characteristic cells - classic RS cell abundant   Immunophenotype:  Positive - CD15 and CD30  Negative - CD45 and BLC-2 and 6 (important for DDX from diffuse large cell lymphoma)    Association with EBV - [...] Additional viral association - [...] (in old patients) Prognosis - [...]	Lymphocyte-depleted form of Hodgkin's lymphoma (least common form):   Characteristic cells - classic RS cell abundant   Immunophenotype:  Positive - CD15 and CD30  Negative - CD45 and BLC-2 and 6 (important for DDX from diffuse large cell lymphoma)    Association with EBV - 90% Additional viral association - HIV (in old patients) Prognosis - poor (worst of all subtypes)
[...]:   Characteristic cells - classic RS cell abundant   Immunophenotype:  Positive - CD15 and CD30  Negative - CD45 and BLC-2 and 6 (important for DDX from diffuse large cell lymphoma)    Association with EBV - 90% Additional viral association - HIV (in old patients) Prognosis - poor (worst of all subtypes)	Lymphocyte-depleted form of Hodgkin's lymphoma (least common form):   Characteristic cells - classic RS cell abundant   Immunophenotype:  Positive - CD15 and CD30  Negative - CD45 and BLC-2 and 6 (important for DDX from diffuse large cell lymphoma)    Association with EBV - 90% Additional viral association - HIV (in old patients) Prognosis - poor (worst of all subtypes)
ID the pathology (immunophenotype CD15+, CD30+, CD45-, BCL2-, BCL6-):	Lymphocyte-depleted form of Hodgkin lymphoma   Note the RS cell and relative lack of lymphoctes..
Nodular Lymphocyte-predominant form of Hodgkin's lymphoma:   Characteristic cells - [...]   Epidemiology: [...]   Immunophenotype:  Positive - CD45, CD20 and BLC-2 and 6 Negative - CD15 and CD30   Prognosis - excellent 3-5% can progress to DLBCL	Nodular Lymphocyte-predominant form of Hodgkin's lymphoma:   Characteristic cells - popcorn cells (LH cells), pathognomonic   Epidemiology: Rare form of HL, 75% occur in young males   Immunophenotype:  Positive - CD45, CD20 and BLC-2 and 6 Negative - CD15 and CD30   Prognosis - excellent 3-5% can progress to DLBCL   Popcorn Cells
Nodular Lymphocyte-predominant form of Hodgkin's lymphoma:   Characteristic cells - popcorn cells (LH cells), pathognomonic   Epidemiology: Rare form of HL, 75% occur in young males   Immunophenotype:  Positive - CD[...], CD[...] and [...] Negative - CD[...] and CD[...]   Prognosis - excellent 3-5% can progress to DLBCL	Nodular Lymphocyte-predominant form of Hodgkin's lymphoma:   Characteristic cells - popcorn cells (LH cells), pathognomonic   Epidemiology: Rare form of HL, 75% occur in young males   Immunophenotype:  Positive - CD45, CD20 and BLC-2 and 6 Negative - CD15 and CD30   Prognosis - excellent 3-5% can progress to DLBCL   Popcorn Cells
Nodular Lymphocyte-predominant form of Hodgkin's lymphoma:   Characteristic cells - popcorn cells (LH cells), pathognomonic   Epidemiology: Rare form of HL, 75% occur in young males   Immunophenotype:  Positive - CD45, CD20 and BLC-2 and 6 Negative - CD15 and CD30   Prognosis - [...] 3-5% can progress to [...]	Nodular Lymphocyte-predominant form of Hodgkin's lymphoma:   Characteristic cells - popcorn cells (LH cells), pathognomonic   Epidemiology: Rare form of HL, 75% occur in young males   Immunophenotype:  Positive - CD45, CD20 and BLC-2 and 6 Negative - CD15 and CD30   Prognosis - excellent 3-5% can progress to DLBCL   Popcorn Cells
[...]:   Characteristic cells - popcorn cells (LH cells), pathognomonic   Epidemiology: Rare form of HL, 75% occur in young males   Immunophenotype:  Positive - CD45, CD20 and BLC-2 and 6 Negative - CD15 and CD30   Prognosis - excellent 3-5% can progress to DLBCL	Nodular Lymphocyte-predominant form of Hodgkin's lymphoma:   Characteristic cells - popcorn cells (LH cells), pathognomonic   Epidemiology: Rare form of HL, 75% occur in young males   Immunophenotype:  Positive - CD45, CD20 and BLC-2 and 6 Negative - CD15 and CD30   Prognosis - excellent 3-5% can progress to DLBCL   Popcorn Cells
Staging Hodgkin lymphomas   A - [...] B - [...]E - [...]X - [...] Stage 1 - 1 lymph node region (e.g. cervical)Stage 1E - a single extralymphatic organ/site Stage 2 - 2 or more lymph node regions on the same side of the diaphragm (e.g. cervical and mediastinal)Stage 2E - localized contiguous involvment of an extralymphatic site Stage 3 - involvment of lymph nodes both superior and inferior to the diaphragm (e.g. mediastinal and enteric)Stage 3E - localized contiguous involvment of an extralymphatic organ/siteStage 3S - involvment of spleen Stage 3ES - extralymphatic organ/site + spleen Stage 4 - disseminated involvment of one or more extralymphatic organs	Staging Hodgkin lymphomas   A - asymptomatic B - B symptoms: weight loss > 10%, fever, drenching night sweatsE - Extranodal extension or single, isolated site of extranodal diseaseX - Bulk > 10 cm Stage 1 - 1 lymph node region (e.g. cervical)Stage 1E - a single extralymphatic organ/site Stage 2 - 2 or more lymph node regions on the same side of the diaphragm (e.g. cervical and mediastinal)Stage 2E - localized contiguous involvment of an extralymphatic site Stage 3 - involvment of lymph nodes both superior and inferior to the diaphragm (e.g. mediastinal and enteric)Stage 3E - localized contiguous involvment of an extralymphatic organ/siteStage 3S - involvment of spleen Stage 3ES - extralymphatic organ/site + spleen Stage 4 - disseminated involvment of one or more extralymphatic organs
Staging Hodgkin lymphomas   A - asymptomatic B - B symptoms: weight loss > 10%, fever, drenching night sweatsE - Extranodal extension or single, isolated site of extranodal diseaseX - Bulk > 10 cm Stage 1 - [...]Stage 1E - [...] Stage 2 - 2 or more lymph node regions on the same side of the diaphragm (e.g. cervical and mediastinal)Stage 2E - localized contiguous involvment of an extralymphatic site Stage 3 - involvment of lymph nodes both superior and inferior to the diaphragm (e.g. mediastinal and enteric)Stage 3E - localized contiguous involvment of an extralymphatic organ/siteStage 3S - involvment of spleen Stage 3ES - extralymphatic organ/site + spleen Stage 4 - disseminated involvment of one or more extralymphatic organs	Staging Hodgkin lymphomas   A - asymptomatic B - B symptoms: weight loss > 10%, fever, drenching night sweatsE - Extranodal extension or single, isolated site of extranodal diseaseX - Bulk > 10 cm Stage 1 - 1 lymph node region (e.g. cervical)Stage 1E - a single extralymphatic organ/site Stage 2 - 2 or more lymph node regions on the same side of the diaphragm (e.g. cervical and mediastinal)Stage 2E - localized contiguous involvment of an extralymphatic site Stage 3 - involvment of lymph nodes both superior and inferior to the diaphragm (e.g. mediastinal and enteric)Stage 3E - localized contiguous involvment of an extralymphatic organ/siteStage 3S - involvment of spleen Stage 3ES - extralymphatic organ/site + spleen Stage 4 - disseminated involvment of one or more extralymphatic organs
Staging Hodgkin lymphomas   A - asymptomatic B - B symptoms: weight loss > 10%, fever, drenching night sweatsE - Extranodal extension or single, isolated site of extranodal diseaseX - Bulk > 10 cm Stage 1 - 1 lymph node region (e.g. cervical)Stage 1E - a single extralymphatic organ/site Stage 2 - [...]Stage 2E - [...] Stage 3 - involvment of lymph nodes both superior and inferior to the diaphragm (e.g. mediastinal and enteric)Stage 3E - localized contiguous involvment of an extralymphatic organ/siteStage 3S - involvment of spleen Stage 3ES - extralymphatic organ/site + spleen Stage 4 - disseminated involvment of one or more extralymphatic organs	Staging Hodgkin lymphomas   A - asymptomatic B - B symptoms: weight loss > 10%, fever, drenching night sweatsE - Extranodal extension or single, isolated site of extranodal diseaseX - Bulk > 10 cm Stage 1 - 1 lymph node region (e.g. cervical)Stage 1E - a single extralymphatic organ/site Stage 2 - 2 or more lymph node regions on the same side of the diaphragm (e.g. cervical and mediastinal)Stage 2E - localized contiguous involvment of an extralymphatic site Stage 3 - involvment of lymph nodes both superior and inferior to the diaphragm (e.g. mediastinal and enteric)Stage 3E - localized contiguous involvment of an extralymphatic organ/siteStage 3S - involvment of spleen Stage 3ES - extralymphatic organ/site + spleen Stage 4 - disseminated involvment of one or more extralymphatic organs
Staging Hodgkin lymphomas   A - asymptomatic B - B symptoms: weight loss > 10%, fever, drenching night sweatsE - Extranodal extension or single, isolated site of extranodal diseaseX - Bulk > 10 cm Stage 1 - 1 lymph node region (e.g. cervical)Stage 1E - a single extralymphatic organ/site Stage 2 - 2 or more lymph node regions on the same side of the diaphragm (e.g. cervical and mediastinal)Stage 2E - localized contiguous involvment of an extralymphatic site Stage 3 - [...]Stage 3E - [...]Stage 3S - [...] Stage 3ES - [...] Stage 4 - disseminated involvment of one or more extralymphatic organs	Staging Hodgkin lymphomas   A - asymptomatic B - B symptoms: weight loss > 10%, fever, drenching night sweatsE - Extranodal extension or single, isolated site of extranodal diseaseX - Bulk > 10 cm Stage 1 - 1 lymph node region (e.g. cervical)Stage 1E - a single extralymphatic organ/site Stage 2 - 2 or more lymph node regions on the same side of the diaphragm (e.g. cervical and mediastinal)Stage 2E - localized contiguous involvment of an extralymphatic site Stage 3 - involvment of lymph nodes both superior and inferior to the diaphragm (e.g. mediastinal and enteric)Stage 3E - localized contiguous involvment of an extralymphatic organ/siteStage 3S - involvment of spleen Stage 3ES - extralymphatic organ/site + spleen Stage 4 - disseminated involvment of one or more extralymphatic organs
Staging Hodgkin lymphomas   A - asymptomatic B - B symptoms: weight loss > 10%, fever, drenching night sweatsE - Extranodal extension or single, isolated site of extranodal diseaseX - Bulk > 10 cm Stage 1 - 1 lymph node region (e.g. cervical)Stage 1E - a single extralymphatic organ/site Stage 2 - 2 or more lymph node regions on the same side of the diaphragm (e.g. cervical and mediastinal)Stage 2E - localized contiguous involvment of an extralymphatic site Stage 3 - involvment of lymph nodes both superior and inferior to the diaphragm (e.g. mediastinal and enteric)Stage 3E - localized contiguous involvment of an extralymphatic organ/siteStage 3S - involvment of spleen Stage 3ES - extralymphatic organ/site + spleen Stage 4 - [...]	Staging Hodgkin lymphomas   A - asymptomatic B - B symptoms: weight loss > 10%, fever, drenching night sweatsE - Extranodal extension or single, isolated site of extranodal diseaseX - Bulk > 10 cm Stage 1 - 1 lymph node region (e.g. cervical)Stage 1E - a single extralymphatic organ/site Stage 2 - 2 or more lymph node regions on the same side of the diaphragm (e.g. cervical and mediastinal)Stage 2E - localized contiguous involvment of an extralymphatic site Stage 3 - involvment of lymph nodes both superior and inferior to the diaphragm (e.g. mediastinal and enteric)Stage 3E - localized contiguous involvment of an extralymphatic organ/siteStage 3S - involvment of spleen Stage 3ES - extralymphatic organ/site + spleen Stage 4 - disseminated involvment of one or more extralymphatic organs
Plasma cell disorders (associated with monoclonal gammopathies):    [...] - tumor masses thorughout the skeletal system (most important/deadly of these disorders) with M component > 3g/dL   [...] - subtype of first disease, with increased plasma M component but without symptoms.    [...] - subtype of first disease, but with a single mass in soft tissue.    Waldenstrom's macroglobinemia - high levels of IgM --> blood hyperviscosity and lymphoblastic lymphoma   Heavy chain disease - synthesis and secretion of free heavy chain fragments (most commonly in the setting of chronic lymphocytic lymphoma or small lymphocytic lymphoma and mediterranean lymphomas that secrete IgA from small bowel).   Primary amyloidosis - results from a monoclonal proliferation of plasma cells secreting free light chains that are subsequently processed and deposited as amyloids.   Monoclonal gammopathy of undetermined significance (MGUS) - most common in elderly, M components in blood of patients that is < 3g/dL, minimal Bence-Jones proteins in urine and often without any signs or symptoms.	Plasma cell disorders (associated with monoclonal gammopathies):    Multiple myeloma - tumor masses thorughout the skeletal system (most important/deadly of these disorders) with M component > 3g/dL   Smoldering/asymptomatic myeloma - subtype of first disease, with increased plasma M component but without symptoms.    Plasmacytoma (solitary myeloma) - subtype of first disease, but with a single mass in soft tissue.    Waldenstrom's macroglobinemia - high levels of IgM --> blood hyperviscosity and lymphoblastic lymphoma   Heavy chain disease - synthesis and secretion of free heavy chain fragments (most commonly in the setting of chronic lymphocytic lymphoma or small lymphocytic lymphoma and mediterranean lymphomas that secrete IgA from small bowel).   Primary amyloidosis - results from a monoclonal proliferation of plasma cells secreting free light chains that are subsequently processed and deposited as amyloids.   Monoclonal gammopathy of undetermined significance (MGUS) - most common in elderly, M components in blood of patients that is < 3g/dL, minimal Bence-Jones proteins in urine and often without any signs or symptoms.
Plasma cell disorders (associated with monoclonal gammopathies):    Multiple myeloma - tumor masses thorughout the skeletal system (most important/deadly of these disorders) with M component > 3g/dL   Smoldering/asymptomatic myeloma - subtype of first disease, with increased plasma M component but without symptoms.    Plasmacytoma (solitary myeloma) - subtype of first disease, but with a single mass in soft tissue.    [...] - high levels of IgM --> blood hyperviscosity and lymphoblastic lymphoma   [...] - synthesis and secretion of free heavy chain fragments (most commonly in the setting of chronic lymphocytic lymphoma or small lymphocytic lymphoma and mediterranean lymphomas that secrete IgA from small bowel).   [...] - results from a monoclonal proliferation of plasma cells secreting free light chains that are subsequently processed and deposited as amyloids.   [...] - most common in elderly, M components in blood of patients that is < 3g/dL, minimal Bence-Jones proteins in urine and often without any signs or symptoms.	Plasma cell disorders (associated with monoclonal gammopathies):    Multiple myeloma - tumor masses thorughout the skeletal system (most important/deadly of these disorders) with M component > 3g/dL   Smoldering/asymptomatic myeloma - subtype of first disease, with increased plasma M component but without symptoms.    Plasmacytoma (solitary myeloma) - subtype of first disease, but with a single mass in soft tissue.    Waldenstrom's macroglobinemia - high levels of IgM --> blood hyperviscosity and lymphoblastic lymphoma   Heavy chain disease - synthesis and secretion of free heavy chain fragments (most commonly in the setting of chronic lymphocytic lymphoma or small lymphocytic lymphoma and mediterranean lymphomas that secrete IgA from small bowel).   Primary amyloidosis - results from a monoclonal proliferation of plasma cells secreting free light chains that are subsequently processed and deposited as amyloids.   Monoclonal gammopathy of undetermined significance (MGUS) - most common in elderly, M components in blood of patients that is < 3g/dL, minimal Bence-Jones proteins in urine and often without any signs or symptoms.
ID the cells + pathology:	Multiple myeloma   Note that flame cells are not specific for multiple myeloma.  Russel bodies - contain immunoglobulins.  Dutcher bodies - granules in the nucleus.
Plasma cell markers:    Positive - CD[...], CD[...] and CD[...] Negative - CD19 and CD20	Plasma cell markers:    Positive - CD38, CD138 and CD79a Negative - CD19 and CD20
Plasma cell markers:    Positive - CD38, CD138 and CD79a Negative - CD[...] and CD[...]	Plasma cell markers:    Positive - CD38, CD138 and CD79a Negative - CD19 and CD20
Lymphoplasmacytic lymphoma (aka Waldenstrom macroglobulinemia):    Epidemiology - [...] yo Most common immunoglobulin - Ig[...]  Also known as: [...]   Difference between Lymphoplasmacytic lymphoma and Waldenstrom's Macroglobulinemia: [...]    Cell Type: [...]   Laboratory Features:  Anemia (decreased EPO in hyperviscosity syndrome) rouleux formation Serum electrophoresis shows M-spike in [$]\gamma[/$]-globulins (monoclonal gammopathy) increased viscosity if IgM is secreted    Definitive Diagnosis: Bone marrow biopsy showing small lymphocytes, plasmacytoid lymphocytes, and plasma cells. Plasma cells often show Russell bodies and Dutcher bodies   Hyperviscosity syndrome (only occurs in waldenstrom's macroglobulinemia):  Visual - venous congestion --> vision impairment Neuro - headache, dizzines (sluggish flow), neuropathy Hematological - complex with coagulation factors --> bleeding Skin - Raynaud's phenomenon and cold urticaria due to cryoglobulinemia    Renal failure? NO Lytic bone lesions? NO  Hypercalcemia? NO    Overall Management: Incurable, thus expectant Tumor burden management: rituximab, cyclophosphomide, dexamethasone Hyperviscosity management: Plasmapheresis	Lymphoplasmacytic lymphoma (aka Waldenstrom macroglobulinemia):    Epidemiology - 60-70 yo Most common immunoglobulin - IgM  Also known as: Low-grade form of non-Hodgkins lymphoma   Difference between Lymphoplasmacytic lymphoma and Waldenstrom's Macroglobulinemia:  Waldenstrom's Macroglobulinemia if the tumor secretes IgM, but LPL if no antibody is secreted or IgA/IgG or other antibodies are secreted    Cell Type: B-cell neoplasm   Laboratory Features:  Anemia (decreased EPO in hyperviscosity syndrome) rouleux formation Serum electrophoresis shows M-spike in [$]\gamma[/$]-globulins (monoclonal gammopathy) increased viscosity if IgM is secreted    Definitive Diagnosis: Bone marrow biopsy showing small lymphocytes, plasmacytoid lymphocytes, and plasma cells. Plasma cells often show Russell bodies and Dutcher bodies   Hyperviscosity syndrome (only occurs in waldenstrom's macroglobulinemia):  Visual - venous congestion --> vision impairment Neuro - headache, dizzines (sluggish flow), neuropathy Hematological - complex with coagulation factors --> bleeding Skin - Raynaud's phenomenon and cold urticaria due to cryoglobulinemia    Renal failure? NO Lytic bone lesions? NO  Hypercalcemia? NO    Overall Management: Incurable, thus expectant Tumor burden management: rituximab, cyclophosphomide, dexamethasone Hyperviscosity management: Plasmapheresis    Normal Serum-electrophoresis   M-spike in Gamma globulin region
Lymphoplasmacytic lymphoma (aka Waldenstrom macroglobulinemia):    Epidemiology - 60-70 yo Most common immunoglobulin - IgM  Also known as: Low-grade form of non-Hodgkins lymphoma   Difference between Lymphoplasmacytic lymphoma and Waldenstrom's Macroglobulinemia:  Waldenstrom's Macroglobulinemia if the tumor secretes IgM, but LPL if no antibody is secreted or IgA/IgG or other antibodies are secreted    Cell Type: B-cell neoplasm   Laboratory Features:  [...] [...] [...] [...]   Definitive Diagnosis: [...]   Hyperviscosity syndrome (only occurs in [...]):  Visual - venous congestion --> vision impairment Neuro - headache, dizzines (sluggish flow), neuropathy Hematological - complex with coagulation factors --> bleeding Skin - Raynaud's phenomenon and cold urticaria due to cryoglobulinemia    Renal failure? NO Lytic bone lesions? NO  Hypercalcemia? NO    Overall Management: Incurable, thus expectant Tumor burden management: rituximab, cyclophosphomide, dexamethasone Hyperviscosity management: Plasmapheresis	Lymphoplasmacytic lymphoma (aka Waldenstrom macroglobulinemia):    Epidemiology - 60-70 yo Most common immunoglobulin - IgM  Also known as: Low-grade form of non-Hodgkins lymphoma   Difference between Lymphoplasmacytic lymphoma and Waldenstrom's Macroglobulinemia:  Waldenstrom's Macroglobulinemia if the tumor secretes IgM, but LPL if no antibody is secreted or IgA/IgG or other antibodies are secreted    Cell Type: B-cell neoplasm   Laboratory Features:  Anemia (decreased EPO in hyperviscosity syndrome) rouleux formation Serum electrophoresis shows M-spike in [$]\gamma[/$]-globulins (monoclonal gammopathy) increased viscosity if IgM is secreted    Definitive Diagnosis: Bone marrow biopsy showing small lymphocytes, plasmacytoid lymphocytes, and plasma cells. Plasma cells often show Russell bodies and Dutcher bodies   Hyperviscosity syndrome (only occurs in waldenstrom's macroglobulinemia):  Visual - venous congestion --> vision impairment Neuro - headache, dizzines (sluggish flow), neuropathy Hematological - complex with coagulation factors --> bleeding Skin - Raynaud's phenomenon and cold urticaria due to cryoglobulinemia    Renal failure? NO Lytic bone lesions? NO  Hypercalcemia? NO    Overall Management: Incurable, thus expectant Tumor burden management: rituximab, cyclophosphomide, dexamethasone Hyperviscosity management: Plasmapheresis    Normal Serum-electrophoresis   M-spike in Gamma globulin region
Lymphoplasmacytic lymphoma (aka Waldenstrom macroglobulinemia):    Epidemiology - 60-70 yo Most common immunoglobulin - IgM  Also known as: Low-grade form of non-Hodgkins lymphoma   Difference between Lymphoplasmacytic lymphoma and Waldenstrom's Macroglobulinemia:  Waldenstrom's Macroglobulinemia if the tumor secretes IgM, but LPL if no antibody is secreted or IgA/IgG or other antibodies are secreted    Cell Type: B-cell neoplasm   Laboratory Features:  Anemia (decreased EPO in hyperviscosity syndrome) rouleux formation Serum electrophoresis shows M-spike in [$]\gamma[/$]-globulins (monoclonal gammopathy) increased viscosity if IgM is secreted    Definitive Diagnosis: Bone marrow biopsy showing small lymphocytes, plasmacytoid lymphocytes, and plasma cells. Plasma cells often show Russell bodies and Dutcher bodies   Hyperviscosity syndrome (only occurs in waldenstrom's macroglobulinemia):  Visual - [...] Neuro - [...] Hematological - [...] Skin - [...]    Renal failure? [...] Lytic bone lesions? [...]  Hypercalcemia? [...]    Overall Management: Incurable, thus expectant Tumor burden management: rituximab, cyclophosphomide, dexamethasone Hyperviscosity management: Plasmapheresis	Lymphoplasmacytic lymphoma (aka Waldenstrom macroglobulinemia):    Epidemiology - 60-70 yo Most common immunoglobulin - IgM  Also known as: Low-grade form of non-Hodgkins lymphoma   Difference between Lymphoplasmacytic lymphoma and Waldenstrom's Macroglobulinemia:  Waldenstrom's Macroglobulinemia if the tumor secretes IgM, but LPL if no antibody is secreted or IgA/IgG or other antibodies are secreted    Cell Type: B-cell neoplasm   Laboratory Features:  Anemia (decreased EPO in hyperviscosity syndrome) rouleux formation Serum electrophoresis shows M-spike in [$]\gamma[/$]-globulins (monoclonal gammopathy) increased viscosity if IgM is secreted    Definitive Diagnosis: Bone marrow biopsy showing small lymphocytes, plasmacytoid lymphocytes, and plasma cells. Plasma cells often show Russell bodies and Dutcher bodies   Hyperviscosity syndrome (only occurs in waldenstrom's macroglobulinemia):  Visual - venous congestion --> vision impairment Neuro - headache, dizzines (sluggish flow), neuropathy Hematological - complex with coagulation factors --> bleeding Skin - Raynaud's phenomenon and cold urticaria due to cryoglobulinemia    Renal failure? NO Lytic bone lesions? NO  Hypercalcemia? NO    Overall Management: Incurable, thus expectant Tumor burden management: rituximab, cyclophosphomide, dexamethasone Hyperviscosity management: Plasmapheresis    Normal Serum-electrophoresis   M-spike in Gamma globulin region
[...]:    Epidemiology - 60-70 yo Most common immunoglobulin - IgM  Also known as: Low-grade form of non-Hodgkins lymphoma   Difference between Lymphoplasmacytic lymphoma and Waldenstrom's Macroglobulinemia:  Waldenstrom's Macroglobulinemia if the tumor secretes IgM, but LPL if no antibody is secreted or IgA/IgG or other antibodies are secreted    Cell Type: B-cell neoplasm   Laboratory Features:  Anemia (decreased EPO in hyperviscosity syndrome) rouleux formation Serum electrophoresis shows M-spike in [$]\gamma[/$]-globulins (monoclonal gammopathy) increased viscosity if IgM is secreted    Definitive Diagnosis: Bone marrow biopsy showing small lymphocytes, plasmacytoid lymphocytes, and plasma cells. Plasma cells often show Russell bodies and Dutcher bodies   Hyperviscosity syndrome (only occurs in waldenstrom's macroglobulinemia):  Visual - venous congestion --> vision impairment Neuro - headache, dizzines (sluggish flow), neuropathy Hematological - complex with coagulation factors --> bleeding Skin - Raynaud's phenomenon and cold urticaria due to cryoglobulinemia    Renal failure? NO Lytic bone lesions? NO  Hypercalcemia? NO    Overall Management: [...] Tumor burden management: [...] Hyperviscosity management: [...]	Lymphoplasmacytic lymphoma (aka Waldenstrom macroglobulinemia):    Epidemiology - 60-70 yo Most common immunoglobulin - IgM  Also known as: Low-grade form of non-Hodgkins lymphoma   Difference between Lymphoplasmacytic lymphoma and Waldenstrom's Macroglobulinemia:  Waldenstrom's Macroglobulinemia if the tumor secretes IgM, but LPL if no antibody is secreted or IgA/IgG or other antibodies are secreted    Cell Type: B-cell neoplasm   Laboratory Features:  Anemia (decreased EPO in hyperviscosity syndrome) rouleux formation Serum electrophoresis shows M-spike in [$]\gamma[/$]-globulins (monoclonal gammopathy) increased viscosity if IgM is secreted    Definitive Diagnosis: Bone marrow biopsy showing small lymphocytes, plasmacytoid lymphocytes, and plasma cells. Plasma cells often show Russell bodies and Dutcher bodies   Hyperviscosity syndrome (only occurs in waldenstrom's macroglobulinemia):  Visual - venous congestion --> vision impairment Neuro - headache, dizzines (sluggish flow), neuropathy Hematological - complex with coagulation factors --> bleeding Skin - Raynaud's phenomenon and cold urticaria due to cryoglobulinemia    Renal failure? NO Lytic bone lesions? NO  Hypercalcemia? NO    Overall Management: Incurable, thus expectant Tumor burden management: rituximab, cyclophosphomide, dexamethasone Hyperviscosity management: Plasmapheresis    Normal Serum-electrophoresis   M-spike in Gamma globulin region
Lymphocyte-rich form of Hodgkin's lymphoma:    Characteristic cells (in addition to classic RS) - [...] Most plentiful inflammatory infiltrate cell (contributes to diffuse effacement of lymph node) - [...]   Immunophenotype:  Positive - CD15 and CD30  Negative - CD45    Association with EBV - 40% Prognosis - excellent	Lymphocyte-rich form of Hodgkin's lymphoma:    Characteristic cells (in addition to classic RS) - Hodgkin Cell - mono-nuclear variant of RS cells Most plentiful inflammatory infiltrate cell (contributes to diffuse effacement of lymph node) - variable proportions of lymphocytes, histiocytes, eosinophils, and plasma cells   Immunophenotype:  Positive - CD15 and CD30  Negative - CD45    Association with EBV - 40% Prognosis - excellent
Lymphocyte-rich form of Hodgkin's lymphoma:    Characteristic cells (in addition to classic RS) - Hodgkin Cell - mono-nuclear variant of RS cells Most plentiful inflammatory infiltrate cell (contributes to diffuse effacement of lymph node) - variable proportions of lymphocytes, histiocytes, eosinophils, and plasma cells   Immunophenotype:  Positive - CD[...] and CD[...]  Negative - CD[...]    Association with EBV - 40% Prognosis - excellent	Lymphocyte-rich form of Hodgkin's lymphoma:    Characteristic cells (in addition to classic RS) - Hodgkin Cell - mono-nuclear variant of RS cells Most plentiful inflammatory infiltrate cell (contributes to diffuse effacement of lymph node) - variable proportions of lymphocytes, histiocytes, eosinophils, and plasma cells   Immunophenotype:  Positive - CD15 and CD30  Negative - CD45    Association with EBV - 40% Prognosis - excellent
Lymphocyte-rich form of Hodgkin's lymphoma:    Characteristic cells (in addition to classic RS) - Hodgkin Cell - mono-nuclear variant of RS cells Most plentiful inflammatory infiltrate cell (contributes to diffuse effacement of lymph node) - variable proportions of lymphocytes, histiocytes, eosinophils, and plasma cells   Immunophenotype:  Positive - CD15 and CD30  Negative - CD45    Association with EBV - [...] Prognosis - [...]	Lymphocyte-rich form of Hodgkin's lymphoma:    Characteristic cells (in addition to classic RS) - Hodgkin Cell - mono-nuclear variant of RS cells Most plentiful inflammatory infiltrate cell (contributes to diffuse effacement of lymph node) - variable proportions of lymphocytes, histiocytes, eosinophils, and plasma cells   Immunophenotype:  Positive - CD15 and CD30  Negative - CD45    Association with EBV - 40% Prognosis - excellent
[...]:    Characteristic cells (in addition to classic RS) - Hodgkin Cell - mono-nuclear variant of RS cells Most plentiful inflammatory infiltrate cell (contributes to diffuse effacement of lymph node) - variable proportions of lymphocytes, histiocytes, eosinophils, and plasma cells   Immunophenotype:  Positive - CD15 and CD30  Negative - CD45    Association with EBV - 40% Prognosis - excellent	Lymphocyte-rich form of Hodgkin's lymphoma:    Characteristic cells (in addition to classic RS) - Hodgkin Cell - mono-nuclear variant of RS cells Most plentiful inflammatory infiltrate cell (contributes to diffuse effacement of lymph node) - variable proportions of lymphocytes, histiocytes, eosinophils, and plasma cells   Immunophenotype:  Positive - CD15 and CD30  Negative - CD45    Association with EBV - 40% Prognosis - excellent
FAB classification of acute myelogenous leukemias:    AML M0 - [...] AML M1 - [...] AML M2 - Myeloblastic with maturation and t(8;21) AML M3 - promyelocytic with t(15;17) AML M4 - myelomonocytic with inv(6) AML M5 - monocytic AML M6 - acute erythroid leukemia AML M7 - megakaryoblastic	FAB classification of acute myelogenous leukemias:    AML M0 - Myeloblastic, minimal differentiation AML M1 - Myeloblastic, with minimal maturation AML M2 - Myeloblastic with maturation and t(8;21) AML M3 - promyelocytic with t(15;17) AML M4 - myelomonocytic with inv(6) AML M5 - monocytic AML M6 - acute erythroid leukemia AML M7 - megakaryoblastic
FAB classification of acute myelogenous leukemias:    AML M0 - Myeloblastic, minimal differentiation AML M1 - Myeloblastic, with minimal maturation AML M2 - [...] AML M3 - [...] AML M4 - [...] AML M5 - monocytic AML M6 - acute erythroid leukemia AML M7 - megakaryoblastic	FAB classification of acute myelogenous leukemias:    AML M0 - Myeloblastic, minimal differentiation AML M1 - Myeloblastic, with minimal maturation AML M2 - Myeloblastic with maturation and t(8;21) AML M3 - promyelocytic with t(15;17) AML M4 - myelomonocytic with inv(6) AML M5 - monocytic AML M6 - acute erythroid leukemia AML M7 - megakaryoblastic
FAB classification of acute myelogenous leukemias:    AML M0 - Myeloblastic, minimal differentiation AML M1 - Myeloblastic, with minimal maturation AML M2 - Myeloblastic with maturation and t(8;21) AML M3 - promyelocytic with t(15;17) AML M4 - myelomonocytic with inv(6) AML M5 - [...] AML M6 - [...] AML M7 - [...]	FAB classification of acute myelogenous leukemias:    AML M0 - Myeloblastic, minimal differentiation AML M1 - Myeloblastic, with minimal maturation AML M2 - Myeloblastic with maturation and t(8;21) AML M3 - promyelocytic with t(15;17) AML M4 - myelomonocytic with inv(6) AML M5 - monocytic AML M6 - acute erythroid leukemia AML M7 - megakaryoblastic
Which AML presents with gum infiltration?	Monocytic (M5)   *Monoblasts and promonocytes predominate.*
Acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL):    85% - [...] cell lineage  Markers - CALLA (CD10) and TdT Most common age group - children   15% - [...] cell lineage  Markers - CD1,2,5,6 (T cell markers < 10) and TdT Most common age group - adolescent males (> 14)	Acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL):    85% - B (B-ALL) cell lineage  Markers - CALLA (CD10) and TdT Most common age group - children   15% - T (T-ALL) cell lineage  Markers - CD1,2,5,6 (T cell markers < 10) and TdT Most common age group - adolescent males (> 14)
Acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL):    85% - B (B-ALL) cell lineage  Markers - [...] and TdT Most common age group - children   15% - T (T-ALL) cell lineage  Markers - [...] and TdT Most common age group - adolescent males (> 14)	Acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL):    85% - B (B-ALL) cell lineage  Markers - CALLA (CD10) and TdT Most common age group - children   15% - T (T-ALL) cell lineage  Markers - CD1,2,5,6 (T cell markers < 10) and TdT Most common age group - adolescent males (> 14)
Acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL):    85% - B (B-ALL) cell lineage  Markers - CALLA (CD10) and TdT Most common age group - [...]   15% - T (T-ALL) cell lineage  Markers - CD1,2,5,6 (T cell markers < 10) and TdT Most common age group - [...]	Acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL):    85% - B (B-ALL) cell lineage  Markers - CALLA (CD10) and TdT Most common age group - children   15% - T (T-ALL) cell lineage  Markers - CD1,2,5,6 (T cell markers < 10) and TdT Most common age group - adolescent males (> 14)
Chronic myelogeneous leukemia:    Epidemiology - [...] yo Risk factors - [...] and [...]   Neoplastic cell - pluripotent stem cell (potential to differentiate into the lymphoid or tri-lineage myeloid stem cell --> can progress to either AML or ALL in blast crisis) Bone marrow - extreme inrease in granulocytes and their precursors Peripheral blood smear - extreme inrease in granulocytes and their precursors   Translocation - t(9;22)  Resulting chromosome - chromosome 22 called Philadelphia chromosome (originally contains BCR) Resulting protein product - bcr-abl --> tyrosine kinase activity --> increased mitotic activity	Chronic myelogeneous leukemia:    Epidemiology - 40-60 yo Risk factors - ionizing radiation and benzene   Neoplastic cell - pluripotent stem cell (potential to differentiate into the lymphoid or tri-lineage myeloid stem cell --> can progress to either AML or ALL in blast crisis) Bone marrow - extreme inrease in granulocytes and their precursors Peripheral blood smear - extreme inrease in granulocytes and their precursors   Translocation - t(9;22)  Resulting chromosome - chromosome 22 called Philadelphia chromosome (originally contains BCR) Resulting protein product - bcr-abl --> tyrosine kinase activity --> increased mitotic activity
Chronic myelogeneous leukemia:    Epidemiology - 40-60 yo Risk factors - ionizing radiation and benzene   Neoplastic cell - [...] Bone marrow - extreme inrease in [...] Peripheral blood smear - extreme inrease in [...]   Translocation - t(9;22)  Resulting chromosome - chromosome 22 called Philadelphia chromosome (originally contains BCR) Resulting protein product - bcr-abl --> tyrosine kinase activity --> increased mitotic activity	Chronic myelogeneous leukemia:    Epidemiology - 40-60 yo Risk factors - ionizing radiation and benzene   Neoplastic cell - pluripotent stem cell (potential to differentiate into the lymphoid or tri-lineage myeloid stem cell --> can progress to either AML or ALL in blast crisis) Bone marrow - extreme inrease in granulocytes and their precursors Peripheral blood smear - extreme inrease in granulocytes and their precursors   Translocation - t(9;22)  Resulting chromosome - chromosome 22 called Philadelphia chromosome (originally contains BCR) Resulting protein product - bcr-abl --> tyrosine kinase activity --> increased mitotic activity
Chronic myelogeneous leukemia:    Epidemiology - 40-60 yo Risk factors - ionizing radiation and benzene   Neoplastic cell - pluripotent stem cell (potential to differentiate into the lymphoid or tri-lineage myeloid stem cell --> can progress to either AML or ALL in blast crisis) Bone marrow - extreme inrease in granulocytes and their precursors Peripheral blood smear - extreme inrease in granulocytes and their precursors   Translocation - t([...];[...])  Resulting chromosome - [...] Resulting protein product - [...]	Chronic myelogeneous leukemia:    Epidemiology - 40-60 yo Risk factors - ionizing radiation and benzene   Neoplastic cell - pluripotent stem cell (potential to differentiate into the lymphoid or tri-lineage myeloid stem cell --> can progress to either AML or ALL in blast crisis) Bone marrow - extreme inrease in granulocytes and their precursors Peripheral blood smear - extreme inrease in granulocytes and their precursors   Translocation - t(9;22)  Resulting chromosome - chromosome 22 called Philadelphia chromosome (originally contains BCR) Resulting protein product - bcr-abl --> tyrosine kinase activity --> increased mitotic activity
[...]:    Epidemiology - 40-60 yo Risk factors - ionizing radiation and benzene   Neoplastic cell - pluripotent stem cell (potential to differentiate into the lymphoid or tri-lineage myeloid stem cell --> can progress to either AML or ALL in blast crisis) Bone marrow - extreme inrease in granulocytes and their precursors Peripheral blood smear - extreme inrease in granulocytes and their precursors   Translocation - t(9;22)  Resulting chromosome - chromosome 22 called Philadelphia chromosome (originally contains BCR) Resulting protein product - bcr-abl --> tyrosine kinase activity --> increased mitotic activity	Chronic myelogeneous leukemia:    Epidemiology - 40-60 yo Risk factors - ionizing radiation and benzene   Neoplastic cell - pluripotent stem cell (potential to differentiate into the lymphoid or tri-lineage myeloid stem cell --> can progress to either AML or ALL in blast crisis) Bone marrow - extreme inrease in granulocytes and their precursors Peripheral blood smear - extreme inrease in granulocytes and their precursors   Translocation - t(9;22)  Resulting chromosome - chromosome 22 called Philadelphia chromosome (originally contains BCR) Resulting protein product - bcr-abl --> tyrosine kinase activity --> increased mitotic activity
Chronic lymphocytic leukemia:    Epidemiology - [...]   Neoplastic cells -  [...] Markers - [...] Location of neoplastic cells - [...]   Labs:  Characteristic cells - Smear cells (artifact) Serology - hypogammaglobulinemia WBC - lymphocytosis (proliferating B cells) RBCs (50%) - autoimmune hemolytic anemia --> spherocytes seen on PB smear  Platelets (40%) - immune thrombocytopenia Bone marrow - usually replaced by neoplastic B cells	Chronic lymphocytic leukemia:    Epidemiology - > 60 yo   Neoplastic cells -  abnormal B cells that cannot differentiate into plasma cells --> hypogammaglobulinemia Markers - B cell markers (CD19, 20, 23) and CD5 (T cell marker) Location of neoplastic cells - bone marrow and peripheral blood   Labs:  Characteristic cells - Smear cells (artifact) Serology - hypogammaglobulinemia WBC - lymphocytosis (proliferating B cells) RBCs (50%) - autoimmune hemolytic anemia --> spherocytes seen on PB smear  Platelets (40%) - immune thrombocytopenia Bone marrow - usually replaced by neoplastic B cells
Chronic lymphocytic leukemia:    Epidemiology - > 60 yo   Neoplastic cells -  abnormal B cells that cannot differentiate into plasma cells --> hypogammaglobulinemia Markers - B cell markers (CD19, 20, 23) and CD5 (T cell marker) Location of neoplastic cells - bone marrow and peripheral blood   Labs:  Characteristic cells - [...] Serology - [...] WBC - [...] RBCs (50%) - [...]  Platelets (40%) - [...] Bone marrow - [...]	Chronic lymphocytic leukemia:    Epidemiology - > 60 yo   Neoplastic cells -  abnormal B cells that cannot differentiate into plasma cells --> hypogammaglobulinemia Markers - B cell markers (CD19, 20, 23) and CD5 (T cell marker) Location of neoplastic cells - bone marrow and peripheral blood   Labs:  Characteristic cells - Smear cells (artifact) Serology - hypogammaglobulinemia WBC - lymphocytosis (proliferating B cells) RBCs (50%) - autoimmune hemolytic anemia --> spherocytes seen on PB smear  Platelets (40%) - immune thrombocytopenia Bone marrow - usually replaced by neoplastic B cells
[...]:    Epidemiology - > 60 yo   Neoplastic cells -  abnormal B cells that cannot differentiate into plasma cells --> hypogammaglobulinemia Markers - B cell markers (CD19, 20, 23) and CD5 (T cell marker) Location of neoplastic cells - bone marrow and peripheral blood   Labs:  Characteristic cells - Smear cells (artifact) Serology - hypogammaglobulinemia WBC - lymphocytosis (proliferating B cells) RBCs (50%) - autoimmune hemolytic anemia --> spherocytes seen on PB smear  Platelets (40%) - immune thrombocytopenia Bone marrow - usually replaced by neoplastic B cells	Chronic lymphocytic leukemia:    Epidemiology - > 60 yo   Neoplastic cells -  abnormal B cells that cannot differentiate into plasma cells --> hypogammaglobulinemia Markers - B cell markers (CD19, 20, 23) and CD5 (T cell marker) Location of neoplastic cells - bone marrow and peripheral blood   Labs:  Characteristic cells - Smear cells (artifact) Serology - hypogammaglobulinemia WBC - lymphocytosis (proliferating B cells) RBCs (50%) - autoimmune hemolytic anemia --> spherocytes seen on PB smear  Platelets (40%) - immune thrombocytopenia Bone marrow - usually replaced by neoplastic B cells
[...]:    Epidemiology (geography) - most common in Japan and the Carribean   Neoplastic cells - CD4+ helper T cells Associated virus - HTLV-1 Pathogenesis - activation of TAX gene --> inhibition of p53 --> increased proliferation   Clinical presentation:  Hepatosplenomegaly? YES  Lymphadenopathy? YES Skin lesions? YES (need to rule out other T cell malignancies)  Lytic bone lesions? YES (lymphoblasts secrete osteoclast-activating factor need to rule out multiple myeloma)   Labs:  Characteristic cell - malignant T cells with hyperlobated nucleus (4-leaf clover or flower shaped) Metabolic - hypercalcemia   Treatment - AZT (azidothymidine/zidovudine)	"Adult T cell leukemia (classified under ""other leukemias""):    Epidemiology (geography) - most common in Japan and the Carribean   Neoplastic cells - CD4+ helper T cells Associated virus - HTLV-1 Pathogenesis - activation of TAX gene --> inhibition of p53 --> increased proliferation   Clinical presentation:  Hepatosplenomegaly? YES  Lymphadenopathy? YES Skin lesions? YES (need to rule out other T cell malignancies)  Lytic bone lesions? YES (lymphoblasts secrete osteoclast-activating factor need to rule out multiple myeloma)   Labs:  Characteristic cell - malignant T cells with hyperlobated nucleus (4-leaf clover or flower shaped) Metabolic - hypercalcemia   Treatment - AZT (azidothymidine/zidovudine)"
"Adult T cell leukemia (classified under ""other leukemias""):    Epidemiology (geography) - most common in Japan and the Carribean   Neoplastic cells - [...] Associated virus - [...] Pathogenesis - activation of TAX gene --> inhibition of p53 --> increased proliferation   Clinical presentation:  Hepatosplenomegaly? YES  Lymphadenopathy? YES Skin lesions? YES (need to rule out other T cell malignancies)  Lytic bone lesions? YES (lymphoblasts secrete osteoclast-activating factor need to rule out multiple myeloma)   Labs:  Characteristic cell - malignant T cells with hyperlobated nucleus (4-leaf clover or flower shaped) Metabolic - hypercalcemia   Treatment - AZT (azidothymidine/zidovudine)"	"Adult T cell leukemia (classified under ""other leukemias""):    Epidemiology (geography) - most common in Japan and the Carribean   Neoplastic cells - CD4+ helper T cells Associated virus - HTLV-1 Pathogenesis - activation of TAX gene --> inhibition of p53 --> increased proliferation   Clinical presentation:  Hepatosplenomegaly? YES  Lymphadenopathy? YES Skin lesions? YES (need to rule out other T cell malignancies)  Lytic bone lesions? YES (lymphoblasts secrete osteoclast-activating factor need to rule out multiple myeloma)   Labs:  Characteristic cell - malignant T cells with hyperlobated nucleus (4-leaf clover or flower shaped) Metabolic - hypercalcemia   Treatment - AZT (azidothymidine/zidovudine)"
"Adult T cell leukemia (classified under ""other leukemias""):    Epidemiology (geography) - most common in Japan and the Carribean   Neoplastic cells - CD4+ helper T cells Associated virus - HTLV-1 Pathogenesis - activation of [...] gene --> inhibition of [...] --> increased proliferation   Clinical presentation:  Hepatosplenomegaly? YES  Lymphadenopathy? YES Skin lesions? YES (need to rule out other T cell malignancies)  Lytic bone lesions? YES (lymphoblasts secrete osteoclast-activating factor need to rule out multiple myeloma)   Labs:  Characteristic cell - malignant T cells with hyperlobated nucleus (4-leaf clover or flower shaped) Metabolic - hypercalcemia   Treatment - AZT (azidothymidine/zidovudine)"	"Adult T cell leukemia (classified under ""other leukemias""):    Epidemiology (geography) - most common in Japan and the Carribean   Neoplastic cells - CD4+ helper T cells Associated virus - HTLV-1 Pathogenesis - activation of TAX gene --> inhibition of p53 --> increased proliferation   Clinical presentation:  Hepatosplenomegaly? YES  Lymphadenopathy? YES Skin lesions? YES (need to rule out other T cell malignancies)  Lytic bone lesions? YES (lymphoblasts secrete osteoclast-activating factor need to rule out multiple myeloma)   Labs:  Characteristic cell - malignant T cells with hyperlobated nucleus (4-leaf clover or flower shaped) Metabolic - hypercalcemia   Treatment - AZT (azidothymidine/zidovudine)"
"Adult T cell leukemia (classified under ""other leukemias""):    Epidemiology (geography) - most common in Japan and the Carribean   Neoplastic cells - CD4+ helper T cells Associated virus - HTLV-1 Pathogenesis - activation of TAX gene --> inhibition of p53 --> increased proliferation   Clinical presentation:  Hepatosplenomegaly? [...]  Lymphadenopathy? [...] Skin lesions? [...] Lytic bone lesions? [...]   Labs:  Characteristic cell - malignant T cells with hyperlobated nucleus (4-leaf clover or flower shaped) Metabolic - hypercalcemia   Treatment - AZT (azidothymidine/zidovudine)"	"Adult T cell leukemia (classified under ""other leukemias""):    Epidemiology (geography) - most common in Japan and the Carribean   Neoplastic cells - CD4+ helper T cells Associated virus - HTLV-1 Pathogenesis - activation of TAX gene --> inhibition of p53 --> increased proliferation   Clinical presentation:  Hepatosplenomegaly? YES  Lymphadenopathy? YES Skin lesions? YES (need to rule out other T cell malignancies)  Lytic bone lesions? YES (lymphoblasts secrete osteoclast-activating factor need to rule out multiple myeloma)   Labs:  Characteristic cell - malignant T cells with hyperlobated nucleus (4-leaf clover or flower shaped) Metabolic - hypercalcemia   Treatment - AZT (azidothymidine/zidovudine)"
"Adult T cell leukemia (classified under ""other leukemias""):    Epidemiology (geography) - most common in Japan and the Carribean   Neoplastic cells - CD4+ helper T cells Associated virus - HTLV-1 Pathogenesis - activation of TAX gene --> inhibition of p53 --> increased proliferation   Clinical presentation:  Hepatosplenomegaly? YES  Lymphadenopathy? YES Skin lesions? YES (need to rule out other T cell malignancies)  Lytic bone lesions? YES (lymphoblasts secrete osteoclast-activating factor need to rule out multiple myeloma)   Labs:  Characteristic cell - [...] Metabolic - [...]   Treatment - AZT (azidothymidine/zidovudine)"	"Adult T cell leukemia (classified under ""other leukemias""):    Epidemiology (geography) - most common in Japan and the Carribean   Neoplastic cells - CD4+ helper T cells Associated virus - HTLV-1 Pathogenesis - activation of TAX gene --> inhibition of p53 --> increased proliferation   Clinical presentation:  Hepatosplenomegaly? YES  Lymphadenopathy? YES Skin lesions? YES (need to rule out other T cell malignancies)  Lytic bone lesions? YES (lymphoblasts secrete osteoclast-activating factor need to rule out multiple myeloma)   Labs:  Characteristic cell - malignant T cells with hyperlobated nucleus (4-leaf clover or flower shaped) Metabolic - hypercalcemia   Treatment - AZT (azidothymidine/zidovudine)"
[...]:    Epidemiology - middle aged men Neoplastic cells - mature B cells    Clinical presentation:  Most common sign (90% of cases) - splenomegaly  Lymphadenopathy? NO  Infection - atypical mycobacteria (e.g. MAC) Autoimmune - vasculitis and arthritis    Labs:  Diagnostic stain - TRAP (tartrate resistant acid phosphatase stain) Neoplastic cell appearance - fried eggs (ample cytoplasm and small nucleus/yolk) WBC - pancytopenia RBC - pancytopenia Platelets - pancytopenia Bone marrow - dry tap (packed with leukemic cells)    Treatment - 2-chlorodeoxyadenosine	Hairy cell leukemia:    Epidemiology - middle aged men Neoplastic cells - mature B cells    Clinical presentation:  Most common sign (90% of cases) - splenomegaly  Lymphadenopathy? NO  Infection - atypical mycobacteria (e.g. MAC) Autoimmune - vasculitis and arthritis    Labs:  Diagnostic stain - TRAP (tartrate resistant acid phosphatase stain) Neoplastic cell appearance - fried eggs (ample cytoplasm and small nucleus/yolk) WBC - pancytopenia RBC - pancytopenia Platelets - pancytopenia Bone marrow - dry tap (packed with leukemic cells)    Treatment - 2-chlorodeoxyadenosine
Hairy cell leukemia:    Epidemiology - [...] Neoplastic cells - [...]   Clinical presentation:  Most common sign (90% of cases) - splenomegaly  Lymphadenopathy? NO  Infection - atypical mycobacteria (e.g. MAC) Autoimmune - vasculitis and arthritis    Labs:  Diagnostic stain - TRAP (tartrate resistant acid phosphatase stain) Neoplastic cell appearance - fried eggs (ample cytoplasm and small nucleus/yolk) WBC - pancytopenia RBC - pancytopenia Platelets - pancytopenia Bone marrow - dry tap (packed with leukemic cells)    Treatment - 2-chlorodeoxyadenosine	Hairy cell leukemia:    Epidemiology - middle aged men Neoplastic cells - mature B cells    Clinical presentation:  Most common sign (90% of cases) - splenomegaly  Lymphadenopathy? NO  Infection - atypical mycobacteria (e.g. MAC) Autoimmune - vasculitis and arthritis    Labs:  Diagnostic stain - TRAP (tartrate resistant acid phosphatase stain) Neoplastic cell appearance - fried eggs (ample cytoplasm and small nucleus/yolk) WBC - pancytopenia RBC - pancytopenia Platelets - pancytopenia Bone marrow - dry tap (packed with leukemic cells)    Treatment - 2-chlorodeoxyadenosine
Hairy cell leukemia:    Epidemiology - middle aged men Neoplastic cells - mature B cells    Clinical presentation:  Most common sign (90% of cases) - [...]  Lymphadenopathy? [...]  Infection - [...] Autoimmune - [...] and [...]    Labs:  Diagnostic stain - TRAP (tartrate resistant acid phosphatase stain) Neoplastic cell appearance - fried eggs (ample cytoplasm and small nucleus/yolk) WBC - pancytopenia RBC - pancytopenia Platelets - pancytopenia Bone marrow - dry tap (packed with leukemic cells)    Treatment - 2-chlorodeoxyadenosine	Hairy cell leukemia:    Epidemiology - middle aged men Neoplastic cells - mature B cells    Clinical presentation:  Most common sign (90% of cases) - splenomegaly  Lymphadenopathy? NO  Infection - atypical mycobacteria (e.g. MAC) Autoimmune - vasculitis and arthritis    Labs:  Diagnostic stain - TRAP (tartrate resistant acid phosphatase stain) Neoplastic cell appearance - fried eggs (ample cytoplasm and small nucleus/yolk) WBC - pancytopenia RBC - pancytopenia Platelets - pancytopenia Bone marrow - dry tap (packed with leukemic cells)    Treatment - 2-chlorodeoxyadenosine
Hairy cell leukemia:    Epidemiology - middle aged men Neoplastic cells - mature B cells    Clinical presentation:  Most common sign (90% of cases) - splenomegaly  Lymphadenopathy? NO  Infection - atypical mycobacteria (e.g. MAC) Autoimmune - vasculitis and arthritis    Labs:  Diagnostic stain - [...] Neoplastic cell appearance - [...] WBC - pancytopenia RBC - pancytopenia Platelets - pancytopenia Bone marrow - dry tap (packed with leukemic cells)    Treatment - 2-chlorodeoxyadenosine	Hairy cell leukemia:    Epidemiology - middle aged men Neoplastic cells - mature B cells    Clinical presentation:  Most common sign (90% of cases) - splenomegaly  Lymphadenopathy? NO  Infection - atypical mycobacteria (e.g. MAC) Autoimmune - vasculitis and arthritis    Labs:  Diagnostic stain - TRAP (tartrate resistant acid phosphatase stain) Neoplastic cell appearance - fried eggs (ample cytoplasm and small nucleus/yolk) WBC - pancytopenia RBC - pancytopenia Platelets - pancytopenia Bone marrow - dry tap (packed with leukemic cells)    Treatment - 2-chlorodeoxyadenosine
Hairy cell leukemia:    Epidemiology - middle aged men Neoplastic cells - mature B cells    Clinical presentation:  Most common sign (90% of cases) - splenomegaly  Lymphadenopathy? NO  Infection - atypical mycobacteria (e.g. MAC) Autoimmune - vasculitis and arthritis    Labs:  Diagnostic stain - TRAP (tartrate resistant acid phosphatase stain) Neoplastic cell appearance - fried eggs (ample cytoplasm and small nucleus/yolk) WBC - [...] RBC - [...] Platelets - [...] Bone marrow - [...]   Treatment - 2-chlorodeoxyadenosine	Hairy cell leukemia:    Epidemiology - middle aged men Neoplastic cells - mature B cells    Clinical presentation:  Most common sign (90% of cases) - splenomegaly  Lymphadenopathy? NO  Infection - atypical mycobacteria (e.g. MAC) Autoimmune - vasculitis and arthritis    Labs:  Diagnostic stain - TRAP (tartrate resistant acid phosphatase stain) Neoplastic cell appearance - fried eggs (ample cytoplasm and small nucleus/yolk) WBC - pancytopenia RBC - pancytopenia Platelets - pancytopenia Bone marrow - dry tap (packed with leukemic cells)    Treatment - 2-chlorodeoxyadenosine
Hairy cell leukemia:    Epidemiology - middle aged men Neoplastic cells - mature B cells    Clinical presentation:  Most common sign (90% of cases) - splenomegaly  Lymphadenopathy? NO  Infection - atypical mycobacteria (e.g. MAC) Autoimmune - vasculitis and arthritis    Labs:  Diagnostic stain - TRAP (tartrate resistant acid phosphatase stain) Neoplastic cell appearance - fried eggs (ample cytoplasm and small nucleus/yolk) WBC - pancytopenia RBC - pancytopenia Platelets - pancytopenia Bone marrow - dry tap (packed with leukemic cells)    Treatment - [...]	Hairy cell leukemia:    Epidemiology - middle aged men Neoplastic cells - mature B cells    Clinical presentation:  Most common sign (90% of cases) - splenomegaly  Lymphadenopathy? NO  Infection - atypical mycobacteria (e.g. MAC) Autoimmune - vasculitis and arthritis    Labs:  Diagnostic stain - TRAP (tartrate resistant acid phosphatase stain) Neoplastic cell appearance - fried eggs (ample cytoplasm and small nucleus/yolk) WBC - pancytopenia RBC - pancytopenia Platelets - pancytopenia Bone marrow - dry tap (packed with leukemic cells)    Treatment - 2-chlorodeoxyadenosine
Antimitochondrial Antibodies	Primary Billiary sclerosis: destruction of interlobular bile ducts. Pruritis, enlarged liver, anicteric sclerae
Antiphospholipid Antibody Syndrome Diagnostic Criteria:	1) Thrombosis or pregnancy complication 2) Two positive blood tests spaced at least 3 months apart. Anticardiolipin is the antibody that can give a false positive to VDRL testing (syphillis)
Antismooth muscle antibodies	Autoimmune hepatitis, typically associated with other auto immunological features such as autoimmune thyroiditis, rheumatoid arthritis and other conditions.
Antimicrosomal and Antithyroperoxidase Antibodies	Hashimoto's Thyroiditis
anti–U1-RNP antibodies	Mixed connective tissue disease (symptoms similar to SLE and Systemic Sclerosis) (U1-ribonucleoprotein)
anti–RNA polymerase III antibodies (anti-RNA-pol-III)	Specific for Diffuse Scleroderma, predicts the scleroderma renal crisis Anti-Scl-70 Antibody does not predict scleroderma renal crisis. Anti-RNA-pol-I/II/III are all associated with renal crises.
Why do patients with thalassemia that do not require transfusions have iron overload?	Low hepicidin causing augmented gastrointestinal absorption and involves mainly the liver. The hepatic peptide hepcidin, normally regulated by marrow activity and by iron load, is disproportionately low in individuals with thalassemia, allowing iron to be absorbed from the gut even in the presence of severe overload. Although individuals with thalassemia intermedia are at risk of iron overload, hypogonadism, hypothyroidism and diabetes are not common
Complications of thalassemia intermedia	Pulmonary hypertension, thromboembolic events, leg ulcers over the medial malleolus,  tumours resulting from extramedullary erythropoiesis, primary cause of premature death is myocardial hemosiderosis Hemolysis per se has been linked to the development of a hypercoagulable state and pulmonary hypertension. The pathogenesis may include: activation of platelets, endothelial cells and monocytes with increased both thromboxane, and endothelin, decreased prostacycline along with dysfunction of the coagulation system. Leg ulcers associated with chronic anemia/hemolysis
What is Hba2?	Two alpha and two delta chains. Found in low levels in adults, or higher levels in patients with beta thalassemia.
What is methemoglobinemia?	Increased leves of methemoglobin. (metHb, i.e., ferric [Fe3+] rather than ferrous [Fe2+] haemoglobin) Brown colored blood instead of red. Methemoglobinemia can be treated with supplemental oxygen and methylene blue.
Causes of acquired methemoglobinemia	Antibiotics (trimethoprim, sulfonamides and dapsone), local anesthetics (especially articaine, benzocaine, and prilocaine), and aniline dyes, metoclopramide,rasburicase, chlorates, bromates and nitrates
Cell surface proteins ankyrin, spectrin & protein 3 are seen in which condition?	Hereditary spherocytosis: ankyrin (50%), spectrin (25%) & protein 3 (25%) These proteins are necessary to maintain the normal shape of a red blood cell, which is a biconcave disk. The integrating protein that is most commonly defective is ankyrin which is responsible for incorporation and binding of spectrin, thus in its dysfunction cytoskeletal instabilities ensue.The primary defect in hereditary spherocytosis is a deficiency of membrane surface area. Decreased surface area may be produced by two different mechanisms: 1) Defects of spectrin, ankyrin (most commonly), or protein 4.2 lead to reduced density of the membrane skeleton, destabilizing the overlying lipid bilayer and releasing band 3-containing microvescicles. 2) Defects of band 3 lead to band 3 deficiency and loss of its lipid-stabilizing effect. This results in the loss of band 3-free microvesicles. Both pathways result in membrane loss, decreased surface area, and formation of spherocytes with decreased deformability
Donath-Landsteiner Antibody	Paroxysmal cold hemoglobinuria /  cold antibody autoimmune hemolytic anemia (IgG) not PNH
CD55 & CD59 are deficient in which illness?	Paroxysmal nocturnal hemoglobinuria
Features of CLL (6)	1) Diagnosed with mature lymphocytosis and  a) very low levels of surface membrane (smlg) and either kappa or lambda light chains (not both), b) B-cell associated antigens (CD19, 20 & 23), and c) T-cell antigen CD5.  2) Hepatosplenomegaly & lymphadenopathy 3) Leukemia Cutis - skin infiltration of CLL causing maculo-papular rash (only in 5% of cases) 4) Warm-agglutinin hemolytic anemia 5) Hypogammaglobulinemia - in 15% at diagnosis, but will develop in 66% 6) Richter's Transformation - in 2-8%, transformation to a diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (Hodgkins & T-cell lymphoma)
Anticoagulation for phospholipid antibody syndrome in pregnancy?	Heparin + Aspirin. Warfarin only safe in breastfeeding
Hodgkin's lymphoma with the best prognosis	Lymphocyte-rich
What conditions are most associated with Budd-Chiari Syndrome?	Underlying thrombotic diathesis, Myeloproliferative disorders: polycythemia vera and paroxysmal nocturnal hemoglobinuria Also: Pregnancy, tumors, chronic inflammatory diseases, clotting disorders, and infections.
Which host factors in stem cell transplant patients most predisposes them to infections with organisms such as Aspergillus fumigatus, Rhizopus and Scedosporium?	Older ageThe presence and severity of GVHDCorticosteroid therapyGraft failureDiagnosis other than chronic myeloid leukemiaAdvanced cancer at transplantationCytopenias (neutropenia, lymphopenia, monocytopenia)Iron overload  The median time of onset of aspergillosis is 100 days after transplantation
Definitive diagnosis of Sickle Cell Disease?	Hemoglobin electrophoresis demonstrating HbS
What produces thrombopeitin and what state causes a deficiency?	Liver - cirrhosis causes thrombopoeitin deficiency and thrombocytopenia
Plasma cell disorders (associated with monoclonal gammopathies):    Multiple myeloma - tumor masses thorughout the skeletal system (most important/deadly of these disorders) with M component > 3g/dL   Smoldering/asymptomatic myeloma - subtype of first disease, with increased plasma M component but without symptoms.    Plasmacytoma (solitary myeloma) - subtype of first disease, but with a single mass in soft tissue.    Waldenstrom's macroglobinemia - high levels of IgM --> [...]   Heavy chain disease - synthesis and secretion of free heavy chain fragments (most commonly in the setting of chronic lymphocytic lymphoma or small lymphocytic lymphoma and mediterranean lymphomas that secrete IgA from small bowel).   Primary amyloidosis - results from a monoclonal proliferation of plasma cells secreting free light chains that are subsequently processed and deposited as amyloids.   Monoclonal gammopathy of undetermined significance (MGUS) - most common in elderly, [...], minimal Bence-Jones proteins in urine and often without any signs or symptoms.	Plasma cell disorders (associated with monoclonal gammopathies):    Multiple myeloma - tumor masses thorughout the skeletal system (most important/deadly of these disorders) with M component > 3g/dL   Smoldering/asymptomatic myeloma - subtype of first disease, with increased plasma M component but without symptoms.    Plasmacytoma (solitary myeloma) - subtype of first disease, but with a single mass in soft tissue.    Waldenstrom's macroglobinemia - high levels of IgM --> blood hyperviscosity and lymphoblastic lymphoma   Heavy chain disease - synthesis and secretion of free heavy chain fragments (most commonly in the setting of chronic lymphocytic lymphoma or small lymphocytic lymphoma and mediterranean lymphomas that secrete IgA from small bowel).   Primary amyloidosis - results from a monoclonal proliferation of plasma cells secreting free light chains that are subsequently processed and deposited as amyloids.   Monoclonal gammopathy of undetermined significance (MGUS) - most common in elderly, M components in blood of patients that is < 3g/dL, minimal Bence-Jones proteins in urine and often without any signs or symptoms.
Diagnostic Criteria of MGUS	1) A monoclonal paraprotein band lesser than 30 g/L (< 3g/dL). 2) Plasma cells less than 10% on bone marrow examination. 3) No end-organ dysfunction: bone lesions, anemia, hypercalcemia, or renal insufficiency related to the paraprotein. 4) No evidence of another B-cell proliferative disorder.
What Ig is secreted only in Waldenstrom's macroglobulinemia and NOT in myeloma?	IgM
Three factors associated with progression to myeloma in MGUS:	1) IgA is more likely to progress then IgG 2) If serum free light chain is abnormal 3) Higher levels of paraprotein A paraprotein is a monoclonal immunoglobulin or light chain present in the blood or urine; it is produced by a clonal population of mature B cells, most commonly plasma cells.
If a patient with an IgM MGUS progresses, what is the likely underlying tumor?	Waldenstrom's Macroglobulinemia or Non-Hodgkin's Lymphoma and other B-cell proliferative disorders, NOT myeloma. IgM Multiple Myeloma is exceedingly rare
What osteoporotic medication must a patient with multiple myeloma, with/without bone lesions be on?	Bisphosphonates Inhibits osteoclast activity and has an anti-myeloma effect as well. Translates into fewer lytic bone lesions and fewer skeletal events (eg, pathologic fracture) in patients with MM.
Thalassemia genotypes   Beta thalassemias:  Major - [...] or [...] Intermedia - [...] or [...] Minor - [...] or [...]   Alpha thalassemias:  Hydrops fetalis (Bart's disease) - [...] HbH disease - [...] Alpha thalassemia trait - [...] Silent carrier - [...]	Thalassemia genotypes   Beta thalassemias:  Major - Homozygous [$]\beta ^0 / \beta ^0[/$] (no detectable beta chains) or Homozygous [$]\beta ^+ / \beta ^+[/$] (some detectable beta chains) Intermedia - Heterozygous [$]\beta ^0 / \beta [/$] or [$]\beta ^+ / \beta ^+[/$] Minor - Heterozygous [$]\beta ^+ / \beta[/$] or Heterozygous [$]\beta ^0 / \beta[/$], which is similar to in intermedia   Alpha thalassemias:  Hydrops fetalis (Bart's disease) - all 4 alpha chain genes deleted: [$]--/--[/$] HbH disease - 1 alpha gene intact: [$]\alpha -/--[/$] Alpha thalassemia trait - 2 alpha gene intact: [$]\alpha \alpha /--[/$] Silent carrier - 3 alpha gene intact: [$]\alpha \alpha / \alpha -[/$]   Beta Thalassemia Beta-thalassemias are heterogeneous autosomal recessive hereditary anemias characterized by reduced or absent β globin chain synthesis. The resulting relative excess of unbound α globin chains precipitate in erythroid precursors in the bone marrow, leading to their premature death and, hence, to ineffective erythropoiesis.   In most cases, mutations are single nucleotide substitutions, deletions or insertions of single nucleotides or small oligonucleotides leading to frameshift. Their diversity and the consequent variable degree of globin chain imbalance are the main determinants for milder phenotypes, the coinheritance of homozygosity or compound heterozygosity for mild β-thalassemia alleles being responsible for a consistent residual output of β chains from the affected β globin locus.   Alleles without a mutation that reduces function are characterized as (β). Mutations are characterized as (βo) if they prevent any formation of β chains, mutations are characterized as (β+) if they allow some β chain formation to occur.   In thalassemia, an additional, contiguous length or a discontinuous fragment of non-coding instructions are included in the mRNA. This happens because the mutation obliterates the boundary between the intronic and exonic portions. Because all the coding sections may still be present, normal hemoglobin may be produced and the added material, if it produces pathology, instead disrupts regulatory functions enough to produce anemia.   Alpha Thalassemia Genes that regulate both the synthesis and the structure of different globins are organized into 2 separate clusters. The alpha-globin genes are encoded on chromosome 16, and the gamma-, delta-, and beta-globin genes are encoded on chromosome 11. Healthy individuals have 4 alpha-globin genes, 2 on each chromosome 16 (αα/αα; see the image below). Alpha thalassemia syndromes are caused by deficient expression of 1 or more of the 4 alpha-globin genes on chromosome 16 and are characterized by absent or reduced synthesis of alpha-globin chains.    In hydrops fetalis Bart's hemoglobin (HbH) is produced and is composed of 4 gamma chains. Fetal hemoglobin (HbF) is composed of 2 alpha and 2 gamma chains.
Thalassemia genotypes   Beta thalassemias:  [...] - Homozygous [$]\beta ^0 / \beta ^0[/$] (no detectable beta chains) or Homozygous [$]\beta ^+ / \beta ^+[/$] (some detectable beta chains) [...] - Heterozygous [$]\beta ^0 / \beta [/$] or [$]\beta ^+ / \beta ^+[/$] [...] - Heterozygous [$]\beta ^+ / \beta[/$] or Heterozygous [$]\beta ^0 / \beta[/$], which is similar to in intermedia   Alpha thalassemias:  [...] - all 4 alpha chain genes deleted: [$]--/--[/$] [...] - 1 alpha gene intact: [$]\alpha -/--[/$] [...] - 2 alpha gene intact: [$]\alpha \alpha /--[/$] [...] - 3 alpha gene intact: [$]\alpha \alpha / \alpha -[/$]	Thalassemia genotypes   Beta thalassemias:  Major - Homozygous [$]\beta ^0 / \beta ^0[/$] (no detectable beta chains) or Homozygous [$]\beta ^+ / \beta ^+[/$] (some detectable beta chains) Intermedia - Heterozygous [$]\beta ^0 / \beta [/$] or [$]\beta ^+ / \beta ^+[/$] Minor - Heterozygous [$]\beta ^+ / \beta[/$] or Heterozygous [$]\beta ^0 / \beta[/$], which is similar to in intermedia   Alpha thalassemias:  Hydrops fetalis (Bart's disease) - all 4 alpha chain genes deleted: [$]--/--[/$] HbH disease - 1 alpha gene intact: [$]\alpha -/--[/$] Alpha thalassemia trait - 2 alpha gene intact: [$]\alpha \alpha /--[/$] Silent carrier - 3 alpha gene intact: [$]\alpha \alpha / \alpha -[/$]   Beta Thalassemia Beta-thalassemias are heterogeneous autosomal recessive hereditary anemias characterized by reduced or absent β globin chain synthesis. The resulting relative excess of unbound α globin chains precipitate in erythroid precursors in the bone marrow, leading to their premature death and, hence, to ineffective erythropoiesis.   In most cases, mutations are single nucleotide substitutions, deletions or insertions of single nucleotides or small oligonucleotides leading to frameshift. Their diversity and the consequent variable degree of globin chain imbalance are the main determinants for milder phenotypes, the coinheritance of homozygosity or compound heterozygosity for mild β-thalassemia alleles being responsible for a consistent residual output of β chains from the affected β globin locus.   Alleles without a mutation that reduces function are characterized as (β). Mutations are characterized as (βo) if they prevent any formation of β chains, mutations are characterized as (β+) if they allow some β chain formation to occur.   In thalassemia, an additional, contiguous length or a discontinuous fragment of non-coding instructions are included in the mRNA. This happens because the mutation obliterates the boundary between the intronic and exonic portions. Because all the coding sections may still be present, normal hemoglobin may be produced and the added material, if it produces pathology, instead disrupts regulatory functions enough to produce anemia.   Alpha Thalassemia Genes that regulate both the synthesis and the structure of different globins are organized into 2 separate clusters. The alpha-globin genes are encoded on chromosome 16, and the gamma-, delta-, and beta-globin genes are encoded on chromosome 11. Healthy individuals have 4 alpha-globin genes, 2 on each chromosome 16 (αα/αα; see the image below). Alpha thalassemia syndromes are caused by deficient expression of 1 or more of the 4 alpha-globin genes on chromosome 16 and are characterized by absent or reduced synthesis of alpha-globin chains.    In hydrops fetalis Bart's hemoglobin (HbH) is produced and is composed of 4 gamma chains. Fetal hemoglobin (HbF) is composed of 2 alpha and 2 gamma chains.
Most common plasma cell dyscrasia	MGUS
MGUS	Most common plasma cell dyscrasia
Causes of decreased ESR	Polycythemia, sickle cell anemia & chronic heart failure
In methemaglobinemia the [...] will be normal/high while the [...] will be low In carboxyhemoglobinemia the [...] will be normal/high while the [...] will be low	In methemaglobinemia the SaO2 will be normal/high while the PaO2 will be low In carboxyhemoglobinemia the SaO2 will be normal/high while the PaO2 will be low  In methemaglobinemia the SaO2 that is low but the PaO2 that is normal/high is called the Saturation Gap. Indicates abnormal hemoglobin such as carboxyhemoglobin, methmoglobin, sulphemoglobin. Cyanohemoglobin does not result in this finding.
In methemaglobinemia the SaO2 will be [...] while the PaO2 will be [...] In carboxyhemoglobinemia the SaO2 will be [...] while the PaO2 will be [...]	In methemaglobinemia the SaO2 will be normal/high while the PaO2 will be low In carboxyhemoglobinemia the SaO2 will be normal/high while the PaO2 will be low  In methemaglobinemia the SaO2 that is low but the PaO2 that is normal/high is called the Saturation Gap. Indicates abnormal hemoglobin such as carboxyhemoglobin, methmoglobin, sulphemoglobin. Cyanohemoglobin does not result in this finding.
Autologous vs Allogenic Stem Cell transplant	Autologous: from yourself to yourself Allogenic: from HLA matched donor to yourself
Chromosomal Translocations   [...] - Burkitt's Lymphoma [...] - Mantle Cell Lymphoma [...] - Follicular Lymphoma [...] - Papillary Thyroid Cancer [...] - Follicular Thyroid Cancer [...] - AML M2 [...] - Philadelphia Chromosome, CML and ALL [...] - APML M3 [...] - ALL [...] - Anaplastic Large Cell Lymphoma [...] - MALT-lymphoma	Chromosomal Translocations   t(8;14) - Burkitt's Lymphoma t(11;14) - Mantle Cell Lymphoma t(14;18) - Follicular Lymphoma t(10;various)/RET-proto-oncogene - Papillary Thyroid Cancer t(2;3) - Follicular Thyroid Cancer t(8;21) - AML M2 t(9;22) - Philadelphia Chromosome, CML and ALL t(15;17) - APML M3 t(12;21) - ALL t(2;5) - Anaplastic Large Cell Lymphoma t(11;18) - MALT-lymphoma
Chromosomal Translocations   t(8;14) - [...] t(11;14) - [...] t(14;18) - [...] t(10;various)/RET-proto-oncogene - [...] t(2;3) - [...] t(8;21) - [...] t(9;22) - [...] t(15;17) - [...] t(12;21) - [...] t(2;5) - [...] t(11;18) - [...]	Chromosomal Translocations   t(8;14) - Burkitt's Lymphoma t(11;14) - Mantle Cell Lymphoma t(14;18) - Follicular Lymphoma t(10;various)/RET-proto-oncogene - Papillary Thyroid Cancer t(2;3) - Follicular Thyroid Cancer t(8;21) - AML M2 t(9;22) - Philadelphia Chromosome, CML and ALL t(15;17) - APML M3 t(12;21) - ALL t(2;5) - Anaplastic Large Cell Lymphoma t(11;18) - MALT-lymphoma
Types of hemoglobin in disease[...] - 2 alpha and two gamma chains, found in Beta-thalassemia & Sickle Cell Disease [...] - 2 alpha and two delta chains, found in Beta-thalassemia [...] - Hemoglobin Barts, found in --/-- type Alpha-thalassemia, Hydrops Fetalis	Types of hemoglobin in disease [$]HbF \ \alpha_2 \gamma_2[/$] - 2 alpha and two gamma chains, found in Beta-thalassemia & Sickle Cell Disease  [$]HbA2 \ \alpha_2 \delta_2[/$] - 2 alpha and two delta chains, found in Beta-thalassemia [$]HbH \ \gamma_2 \gamma_2[/$] - Hemoglobin Barts, found in --/-- type Alpha-thalassemia, Hydrops Fetalis  HbF = fetal hemoglobin
Types of hemoglobin in disease [$]HbF \ \alpha_2 \gamma_2[/$] - [...]  [$]HbA2 \ \alpha_2 \delta_2[/$] - [...] [$]HbH \ \gamma_2 \gamma_2[/$] - [...]	Types of hemoglobin in disease [$]HbF \ \alpha_2 \gamma_2[/$] - 2 alpha and two gamma chains, found in Beta-thalassemia & Sickle Cell Disease  [$]HbA2 \ \alpha_2 \delta_2[/$] - 2 alpha and two delta chains, found in Beta-thalassemia [$]HbH \ \gamma_2 \gamma_2[/$] - Hemoglobin Barts, found in --/-- type Alpha-thalassemia, Hydrops Fetalis  HbF = fetal hemoglobin
[...] is used to detect deficiency or abnormalities in fibrinogen, especially in cases of heparin contamination. It will be [...] when heparin is causing the raised APTT	Reptilase time is used to detect deficiency or abnormalities in fibrinogen, especially in cases of heparin contamination. It will be normal when heparin is causing the raised APTT  Reptilase, an enzyme found in the venom of Bothrops snakes, it is essentially thrombin that is resistant to the effects of anti-thrombin III, and thus heparin. Unlike thrombin, reptilase is resistant to inhibition by antithrombin III. Thus, it replaces the inhibited antithrombin III.
In a patient with severe hemophilia A and high titre of factor VIII inhibitor, what do you give as replacement?	Factor VII  Recombinant factor VIIa: rVIIa was initially developed for use in patients with congenital hemophilia with inhibitors, but it has also been used in acquired hemophilia. rVIIa binds to the surface of activated platelets, where it supports thrombin generation, thus bypassing the need for FVIII.   Prednisolone at 1 mg/kg/day results in inhibitor abolition in approximately 30% of patients. The addition of cyclophosphamide at 50 to 100 mg/day can increase the response rate to 60–70%. Along with cyclophosphamide, other agents that have been used are azathioprine, vincristine, mycophenolate mofetil, and 2-chlorodeoxyadenosine. Most patients show response in 3 to 6 weeks, but some may have a prolonged response time of months.   “Off label” use of rituximab has been studied in acquired hemophilia, showing promising results of durable remission.
Management of Polycythemia Vera   When to treat: [...] Hematocrit Target [...] Management strategies: [...], medical managment: [...] and [...]	Management of Polycythemia Vera   When to treat: Upon the onset of symptoms Hematocrit Target <45% Management strategies: Phlebotomy, medical managment: hydroxyurea, ruxolitinib, anagrelide, Busulphan (old) and anti-platelets (aspirin)
Warm (WAIHA) Autoimmune Hemolytic Anemia  WAIHA is usually caused by [...] autoantibodies that react at [...]C resulting in a DAT positive for [...]. It is the most common AIHA at [...]   WAIHA is caused by: Idiopathic, Autoimmune diseases, CLL, Non-hodgkins Lymphoma & Hodgkins Lymphoma   RBCs destroyed by [...] Cold (CAIHA) Autoimmune Hemolytic Anemia CAIHA is usually caused by [...] autoantibodies that bind to RBC at temperatures between 0.8C and 37.8C. CAIHA antibodies [...] RBC in the peripheral circulation and deposit complement, resulting in a DAT positive for [...] and negative for IgG. Occurs in 20-25% of cases   Two forms of CAIHA and cause:  Transient (in young) - Mycoplasma Pneumonia, Infectious mononucleosis Chronic (in older) - B-cell neoplasms	Warm (WAIHA) Autoimmune Hemolytic Anemia  WAIHA is usually caused by IgG autoantibodies that react at 37.8C resulting in a DAT positive for IgG. It is the most common AIHA at 80%   WAIHA is caused by: Idiopathic, Autoimmune diseases, CLL, Non-hodgkins Lymphoma & Hodgkins Lymphoma   RBCs destroyed by Spleen (moreso than by compliment) Cold (CAIHA) Autoimmune Hemolytic Anemia CAIHA is usually caused by IgM autoantibodies that bind to RBC at temperatures between 0.8C and 37.8C. CAIHA antibodies agglutinate RBC in the peripheral circulation and deposit complement, resulting in a DAT positive for C3d and negative for IgG. Occurs in 20-25% of cases   Two forms of CAIHA and cause:  Transient (in young) - Mycoplasma Pneumonia, Infectious mononucleosis Chronic (in older) - B-cell neoplasms
Warm (WAIHA) Autoimmune Hemolytic Anemia  WAIHA is usually caused by IgG autoantibodies that react at 37.8C resulting in a DAT positive for IgG. It is the most common AIHA at 80%   WAIHA is caused by: [...], [...], [...], [...] & [...]   RBCs destroyed by Spleen (moreso than by compliment) Cold (CAIHA) Autoimmune Hemolytic Anemia CAIHA is usually caused by IgM autoantibodies that bind to RBC at temperatures between 0.8C and 37.8C. CAIHA antibodies agglutinate RBC in the peripheral circulation and deposit complement, resulting in a DAT positive for C3d and negative for [...]. Occurs in [...] of cases   Two forms of CAIHA and cause:  Transient (in young) - [...], [...] Chronic (in older) - [...]	Warm (WAIHA) Autoimmune Hemolytic Anemia  WAIHA is usually caused by IgG autoantibodies that react at 37.8C resulting in a DAT positive for IgG. It is the most common AIHA at 80%   WAIHA is caused by: Idiopathic, Autoimmune diseases, CLL, Non-hodgkins Lymphoma & Hodgkins Lymphoma   RBCs destroyed by Spleen (moreso than by compliment) Cold (CAIHA) Autoimmune Hemolytic Anemia CAIHA is usually caused by IgM autoantibodies that bind to RBC at temperatures between 0.8C and 37.8C. CAIHA antibodies agglutinate RBC in the peripheral circulation and deposit complement, resulting in a DAT positive for C3d and negative for IgG. Occurs in 20-25% of cases   Two forms of CAIHA and cause:  Transient (in young) - Mycoplasma Pneumonia, Infectious mononucleosis Chronic (in older) - B-cell neoplasms
What opportunistic infection is most likely to occur in a patient undergoing induction chemotherapy for AML?	Candida Albicans, or invasive aspergillosis Thus primary prophylaxis is indicated. While fluconazole is the often cited drug used, it has no effect on aspergillus species, and thus itraconazole or voriconazole are appropriate alternatives.
Mechanism of action of Dabigatran? Which measure will always increase while on dabigatran?	1) Direct thrombin Inhibitor 2) Thrombin clotting time
Mechanism of Action of Heparin	Activates anti-thrombin III Heparin binds to the enzyme inhibitor antithrombin III (AT), causing a conformational change that results in its activation through an increase in the flexibility of its reactive site loop. The activated AT then inactivates thrombin and other proteases involved in blood clotting, most notably factor Xa. The rate of inactivation of these proteases by AT can increase by up to 1000-fold due to the binding of heparin.
First-line therapy for CLL with p53 Mutation  First-line therapy for CLL with chromosome 17 deletion	Alemtuzumab Ibrutinib
A 69yo male patient of yours is found to have an elevated serum paraprotein level of 35g/L. BMAT reveals 30% monoclonal plasma cell infiltrate. He has no evidence of anaemia, renal impairment, hypercalcaemia or lytic lesions. What is the next step in management?	Observe and monitor He has smoldering multiple myeloma. Meets the criteria for MM with a serum paraprotein level of >30g/L & >10% monoclonal plasma cell infiltrate in bone marrow testing.
Which anti-phosopholipid antibody has the highest risk of thrombosis?	Lupus Anticoagulant  No association was found between thrombosis and anti-cardiolipin (aCL) in a systematic review, and this was subsequently confirmed in prospective studies. Even when assessed at moderate to high titer (aCL > 40 IgG or IgM phospholipid units), the presence of aCL alone was not associated with thrombosis, although pregnancy morbidity was observed. Similarly, there appears to be no association between thrombosis or pregnancy loss in patients only positive for anti-β2GPI. In contrast, LA appears to be more strongly associated with thrombosis and pregnancy complications, although there are conflicting data that suggest isolated LA may not be associated with elevated thrombotic risk. The ELISA assays for aCLs and anti-β2GPI have been plagued by poor standardization and unreliable results. In contrast, assays for LA have better standardization and good correlation with the clinical manifestations of APS.
Factors associated with low risk of thrombosis in Essential Thrombocythemia (No treatment required)	Age <60 years  No previous history of thrombosis Platelet count <1 million/microL Thrombotic events in low-risk patients with ET are too infrequent to justify the long-term use of potentially harmful agents. The risk may be higher, however, in the presence of cardiovascular risk factors and/or extreme uncontrolled thrombocytosis.
When to commence treatment in essential thromboctosis	Platelet count above 1 million History of thrombosis or hemorrhage (platelets are non-functional) Risk factors for thrombosis The use of cytoreductive therapy in those patients with ET who have platelet counts >1 million/microL is based on the association with an increased risk of hemorrhage. The optimal dosing of aspirin in ET is not known.
Causes of Target Cells [...] [...] [...] [...]	Causes of Target Cells Liver Disease Iron Deficiency Splenectomy Thalassemia  The mnemonic LIST
