#separator:tab
#html:false
	
Young basketball star dies of a fatal spontaneous arrhythmia. What do you immediately suspect?	Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy
Clinical features of rheumatic heart disease:    Epidemiology - [...]   Symptoms timing - [...]   Serology - [...]   Presentation:  Most common accompanying symptom in adults - migratory polyarthritis + fever (one large joint after another becomes painful and swollen for a period of days and then subsides spontaneously, leaving no residual disability) Clinical signs of pancarditis - pericardial friction rub and arrhythmias Rare (<1%) complication of myocarditis - congestive heart failure --> death	Clinical features of rheumatic heart disease:    Epidemiology - children 5-15 years old (80% of cases, only 20% first hit cases in adults)   Symptoms timing - 2-3 weeks following streptococcal pharyngitis (cultures for streptococci will be negative by then)   Serology - antibodies to streptococcal antigens (streptolysin O or DNAase)    Presentation:  Most common accompanying symptom in adults - migratory polyarthritis + fever (one large joint after another becomes painful and swollen for a period of days and then subsides spontaneously, leaving no residual disability) Clinical signs of pancarditis - pericardial friction rub and arrhythmias Rare (<1%) complication of myocarditis - congestive heart failure --> death
Clinical features of rheumatic heart disease:    Epidemiology - children 5-15 years old (80% of cases, only 20% first hit cases in adults)   Symptoms timing - 2-3 weeks following streptococcal pharyngitis (cultures for streptococci will be negative by then)   Serology - antibodies to streptococcal antigens (streptolysin O or DNAase)    Presentation:  Most common accompanying symptom in adults - [...] Clinical signs of pancarditis - [...] rub and [...] Rare (<1%) complication of myocarditis - [...]	Clinical features of rheumatic heart disease:    Epidemiology - children 5-15 years old (80% of cases, only 20% first hit cases in adults)   Symptoms timing - 2-3 weeks following streptococcal pharyngitis (cultures for streptococci will be negative by then)   Serology - antibodies to streptococcal antigens (streptolysin O or DNAase)    Presentation:  Most common accompanying symptom in adults - migratory polyarthritis + fever (one large joint after another becomes painful and swollen for a period of days and then subsides spontaneously, leaving no residual disability) Clinical signs of pancarditis - pericardial friction rub and arrhythmias Rare (<1%) complication of myocarditis - congestive heart failure --> death
Asymmetric and concentric hypertrophy of the ventricles.    What do you suspect?	hypertrophic cardiomyopathy  Genetic causes of hypertrophic heart disease
Genes in cardiomyopathy:    Genetic causes of dilated cardiomyopathy (25-50% of cases are genetic) - [...]   Genetic causes of hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (100% of cases are genetic) - [...]   * Although these two forms of cardiomyopathy differ greatly in subcellular basis and morphologic phenotypes, they share a common set of clinical complications --> mostly left ventricle dysfunction *	Genes in cardiomyopathy:    Genetic causes of dilated cardiomyopathy (25-50% of cases are genetic) - cytoskeleton, sarcomere, mitochondria and nuclear envelope (see picture below for details)   Genetic causes of hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (100% of cases are genetic) - sarcomere (actin, beta-myosin, troponins and tropomyosin)   * Although these two forms of cardiomyopathy differ greatly in subcellular basis and morphologic phenotypes, they share a common set of clinical complications --> mostly left ventricle dysfunction *
Genes in cardiomyopathy:    Genetic causes of dilated cardiomyopathy ([...]% of cases are genetic) - cytoskeleton, sarcomere, mitochondria and nuclear envelope (see picture below for details)   Genetic causes of hypertrophic cardiomyopathy ([...]% of cases are genetic) - sarcomere (actin, beta-myosin, troponins and tropomyosin)   * Although these two forms of cardiomyopathy differ greatly in subcellular basis and morphologic phenotypes, they share a common set of clinical complications --> mostly left ventricle dysfunction *	Genes in cardiomyopathy:    Genetic causes of dilated cardiomyopathy (25-50% of cases are genetic) - cytoskeleton, sarcomere, mitochondria and nuclear envelope (see picture below for details)   Genetic causes of hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (100% of cases are genetic) - sarcomere (actin, beta-myosin, troponins and tropomyosin)   * Although these two forms of cardiomyopathy differ greatly in subcellular basis and morphologic phenotypes, they share a common set of clinical complications --> mostly left ventricle dysfunction *
What is the most frequent positive finding in sudde n death of young atheletes?	Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy
Dilated cardiomyopathy:    Etiology: mostly idiopathic Genetics (20-50% have genetic linkages) - all kinds of inhertiance, associated with mitochondrial genes and [...] myopathy Toxic associations - cobalt (in beer), alcohol consumption and adriamycin (chemotherpeutic)   Diastolic or systolic dysfunction? systolic	Dilated cardiomyopathy:    Etiology: mostly idiopathic Genetics (20-50% have genetic linkages) - all kinds of inhertiance, associated with mitochondrial genes and Duchene's (beta-dystrophin) myopathy Toxic associations - cobalt (in beer), alcohol consumption and adriamycin (chemotherpeutic)   Diastolic or systolic dysfunction? systolic
Dilated cardiomyopathy:    Etiology: mostly idiopathic Genetics (20-50% have genetic linkages) - all kinds of inhertiance, associated with mitochondrial genes and Duchene's (beta-dystrophin) myopathy Toxic associations - [...] (in beer), alcohol consumption and adriamycin (chemotherpeutic)   Diastolic or systolic dysfunction? systolic	Dilated cardiomyopathy:    Etiology: mostly idiopathic Genetics (20-50% have genetic linkages) - all kinds of inhertiance, associated with mitochondrial genes and Duchene's (beta-dystrophin) myopathy Toxic associations - cobalt (in beer), alcohol consumption and adriamycin (chemotherpeutic)   Diastolic or systolic dysfunction? systolic
Dilated cardiomyopathy:    Etiology: mostly idiopathic Genetics (20-50% have genetic linkages) - all kinds of inhertiance, associated with mitochondrial genes and Duchene's (beta-dystrophin) myopathy Toxic associations - cobalt (in beer), [...] consumption and [...] (chemotherpeutic)   Diastolic or systolic dysfunction? [...]	Dilated cardiomyopathy:    Etiology: mostly idiopathic Genetics (20-50% have genetic linkages) - all kinds of inhertiance, associated with mitochondrial genes and Duchene's (beta-dystrophin) myopathy Toxic associations - cobalt (in beer), alcohol consumption and adriamycin (chemotherpeutic)   Diastolic or systolic dysfunction? systolic
Which myopathy is one of the most common complications of other diseases (e.g. sarcoidosis, storage diseases, amyloidosis, cancer, hemochromatosis, etc)	Restrictive cardiomyopathy
Monocytes have a high affinity for LDL molecules when they are [...] or [...], via scavenger receptor.   Morphological effect on the monocytes- become foam cells	Monocytes have a high affinity for LDL molecules when they are acetylated or oxidized, via scavenger receptor.   Morphological effect on the monocytes- become foam cells
Monocytes have a high affinity for LDL molecules when they are acetylated or oxidized, via [...] receptor.   Morphological effect on the monocytes- become [...]	Monocytes have a high affinity for LDL molecules when they are acetylated or oxidized, via scavenger receptor.   Morphological effect on the monocytes- become foam cells
Pathophysiology of atherosclerosis:    1) [...]  2) Acetylation and oxidation of LDL --> phagocytosed by macrophages/monocytes (foam cells = fatty streak) 3) [...] 4) Ulcerations expose collagen --> prone to thrombosis   * See table below for progression! *	Pathophysiology of atherosclerosis:    1) Hypertension --> turbulence  2) Acetylation and oxidation of LDL --> phagocytosed by macrophages/monocytes (foam cells = fatty streak) 3) Secretion of cytokines & growth factors --> inflammatory response (smooth muscle cells + monocytes = fibrous plaque) 4) Ulcerations expose collagen --> prone to thrombosis   * See table below for progression! *
Pathophysiology of atherosclerosis:    1) Hypertension --> turbulence  2) [...] 3) Secretion of cytokines & growth factors --> inflammatory response (smooth muscle cells + monocytes = fibrous plaque) 4) [...]   * See table below for progression! *	Pathophysiology of atherosclerosis:    1) Hypertension --> turbulence  2) Acetylation and oxidation of LDL --> phagocytosed by macrophages/monocytes (foam cells = fatty streak) 3) Secretion of cytokines & growth factors --> inflammatory response (smooth muscle cells + monocytes = fibrous plaque) 4) Ulcerations expose collagen --> prone to thrombosis   * See table below for progression! *
ID the pathology:	Kawasaki's disease   Biopsy rarely performed.   Early findings show acute destruction of the media of the vessels by neutrophils, with loss of elastic fibers. Later, the infiltrate is replaced by lymphocytes, monocytes, and fibroblasts involved in arterial remodeling.
Continuous Machinery Murmur, at the left upper sternal border	Patent ductus arteriosus
Systolic Murmur loudest below the left scapula	Coarctation of the Aorta eg. Turner's Syndrome
Harsh holosystolic murmur at the left lower sternal border	Ventricular septal defect
Widely split fixed S2 and systolic ejection murmur at the left upper sternal border	Patent foramen oval or ASD
Decrescendo diastolic murmur heard best at the midprecordium	Aortic Regurgitation
Faint Diastolic Murmur that increases in intensity with inspiration	Tricuspid Stenosis
Holosystolic murmur with radiation of the murmur to the axilla	Mitral Regurgitation
Opening Snap and mid-diastolic rumbling murmur	Mitral Stenosis
Describe the CHADS-VASC score	1 - Congestive Heart Disease; 1 - Hypertension; 2 - Age >= 75; 1 - Diabetes; 2 - Stroke/TIA in past hx; 1 - Vascular Disease (MI, PVD, Aortic plaque); 1 - Age 65-75yrs; 1 - Sex Category Female Score 0 - Non-valvular AF - no anticoagulation, Score 1 - Patient preference, tolerability taken into account, Score 2+ - Warfarin or newer anticoagulants
Describe the HASBLED Score	Hypertension, uncontrolled, systolic BP > 160 mmHg - 1 point; Abnormal renal function (dialysis or creatinine > 200) Or Abnormal liver function (cirrhosis, bilirubin > 2 times normal, ALT/AST/ALP > 3 times normal - 1 point for each; Stroke, history of - 1 point; Bleeding, history of bleeding or tendency to bleed; Labile INRs (unstable/high INRs, time in therapeutic range < 60%); Elderly (> 65 years); Drugs Predisposing to Bleeding (Antiplatelet agents, NSAIDs) or Alcohol Use (>8 drinks/week) There are no formal rules on how we act on the HAS-BLED score although a score of >= 3 indicates a 'high risk' of bleeding, defined as intracranial haemorrhage, hospitalisation, haemoglobin decrease >2 g/L, and/or transfusion.
Criteria for Brugada syndrome	Atypical right bundle branch block pattern with a characteristic cove-shaped ST elevation in leads V1 to V3, in the absence of obvious structural heart disease, electrolyte disturbances or ischaemia.
How is the diagnosis of Brugada syndrome made?	Flecainide challenge exaggerate the ST-segment elevation or unmask it when it is initially absent
An echocardiogram demonstrates apical balloning in keeping with Takosubo's cardiomyopathy. What is the next step in confirming the presence Takosubo's cardiomyopathy?	Angiogram Angiogram is used to eliminate the possibility that the apical balloning is due to ischemic cardiomyopathy
Indication for first line management with ICD in HOCM	First line is beta-blockers and optimal medical management unless:1) Prior cardiac arrest or sustained VT 2) First degree relative with sudden death 3) LV wall thickness >30mm
Patient with a shortened PR interval and delta wave and asymptomatic. When do you treat?	Truck drivers and Pilots and children.  The risk of symptoms in patients with WPW pattern (as distinct from syndrome) is 2%
Describe the Neurologic Illnesses with cardiac disease:	1) Muscular Dystrophy - Dilated Cardiomyopathy: cardiomyopathy characterised by an increased R-to-S ratio in the right precordial ECG leads, deep Q waves in the lateral leads, conduction abnormalities, and arrhythmias. Echo shows normal or thinned left ventricular (LV) wall thickness and progressive decline in ejection fraction or fractional shortening.2) Myotonic Dystrophy - Conduction deficits: selective and extensive impairment of the conduction system is the most common finding. Any part of the conduction system may be affected, but the His-Purkinje system is most frequently involved. 3) Freidrich's Ataxia - Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy
Singh-Vaughan-Williams Classification of Anti-Arrythmics	Ia - Na+ & K+ Channel Blockers - Qinidine, Procainamide, disopyramide Ib - Fast Na+ Channel Blockers - Lidocaine, Phenytoin, Tocainide Ic - Slow Na+ Channel Blockers - Flecainide, Encainide, Propafenone    II - Beta-blockers   III - K+ Channel Blockers - Sotalol, Amiodarone, Ibutilide   IV - Calcium Channel Blockers   V - Misc. mechanisms - Digoxin, adenosine, magnesium sulphate
This is a flow doppler of the mitral valve, what is the pathology	Mitral Stenosis  The image demonstrates the pressure gradient between the left atrium and the left ventricle. High gradients suggest stenosis.
The following is an echo of the aortic outflow tract. What is the pathology	Aortic stenosis The key feature is the mean gradient and jet velocity seen on the echo. The mean gradient is calculated from the jet velocity.
Desribe the pathology seen in this aortic valve echo	Aortic Stenosis  On aortic or mitral valve echo's, look for 1) mean gradient & 2) jet velocity
This is a flow doppler of the aortic valve. What is the pathology?	Aortic Regurgitation The positive flow is towards the probe, and thus the high positive wave is fast flow back towards the probe, or towards the left ventrical as this is an apical view of the heart.
Indications for Digoxin (2 non-indications)	1) AF with tachyrythmias 2) Systolic/Diastolic Heart Failure with AF   Not used in the prevention of paroxysmal AF or heart failure.  The only effect Digoxin has in heart failure is in the improvement of symptoms. Digoxin has no effect on survival.
ECG changes that contraindicate Stress ECG evaluations	Any ECG change present at rest is a contraindication e.g. left or right bundle branch blocks, WPW
A patient is on a statin and continues to have raised triglycerides despite normal cholesterols. What is the add-on therapy used in this situation.	Fibrate E.g. Gemfibrozil, fenofibrate
How is an RCA complete total occlusion managed in the absence of angina and on maximal medical therapy	No intervention or further management Good collateralization has occurred and thus no further management needs to be instituted.
Patient presents with the ECG below and new symptoms of exertional chest pain. What diagnostic modality is used in this situation?	Vasodilator Myocardial Perfusion Imaging - dyprimadole or adenosine CT Coronary angiography - less proven
When is thrombolysis the preferred intervention over PCI as a primary reperfusion strategy?	When time-to-PCI is >120minutes
What are the 3 features to note when doing describing valvular lesions?	Jet velocity, mean gradient and valve area. Below is an example for aortic stenosis.
Pulsus Paradoxus	Abnormally large decrease in systolic blood pressure and pulse wave amplitude during inspiration. Change should be >10mmHg between expiration and inspiration The highest reading should be in expiration as the chest decreases in volume pushing more blood into the heart (Frank-Starling mechanism)
Causes of Pulsus Paradoxus	Heart - Constrictive pericarditis, pericardial tamponade, cardiogenic shock Lungs - Pulmonary Embolism, Asthma, Tension Pneumothorax, COPD Other - Pregnancy, Obesity, Anaphylaxis  Procedure: Inflate cuff until no sounds (as is normally done when taking a BP) slowly decrease cuff pressure until systolic sounds are first heard during expiration but not during inspiration (note this reading), slowly continue decreasing the cuff pressure until sounds are heard throughout the respiratory cycle, (note this second reading). If the pressure difference between the two readings is >10mmHg, it can be classified as pulsus paradoxus.
Most common long-term complication of a repaired tetralogy of fallot	Pulmonary valve incompetence Heart failure and arrythmias leading to sudden cardiac death is the most common cause of death
Aschoff bodies	Pathognomonic for Rheumatic Heart Disease   Aschoff bodies are pathognomonic for Rheumatic heart diseaseComposed of perivascular nodules of inflammatory cells including multinucleated Aschoff cells (aka caterpillar cells), Anitschkow cells, lymphocytes, and plasma cells
Pathognomonic for Rheumatic Heart Disease	Aschoff bodies   Aschoff bodies are pathognomonic for Rheumatic heart diseaseComposed of perivascular nodules of inflammatory cells including multinucleated Aschoff cells (aka caterpillar cells), Anitschkow cells, lymphocytes, and plasma cells
What is seen on an ECG of a hypothermic patient (31C)	Osborn or J waves
When are U waves seen on an ECG?	The most common cause of prominent U waves is bradycardia. Abnormally prominent U waves are characteristically seen in severe hypokalaemia. May also be seen in: Hypocalcaemia, Hypomagnesaemia, Hypothermia, Raised intracranial pressure, Left ventricular hypertrophy, Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy
Describe the Modified Duke Criteria for Bacterial Endocarditis	Bacterial Endocarditis FIVE PM   2 major criteria /1 major, 3 minor criteria / 0 major and 5 minor  Major Criteria 1) Blood culture for typical Infective Endocarditis organisms (strep viridins or bovis, HACEK, staph aureous without other primary site, enterococcus), from 2 separate blood cultures or 2 positive cultures from samples drawn > 12 hours apart, or 3 or a majority of 4 separate cultures of blood (first and last sample drawn 1 hour apart) 2) Echocardiogram with oscillating intracardiac mass on valve or supporting structures, in the path of regurgitant jets, or on implanted material in the absence of an alternative anatomic explanation, or abscess, or new partial dehiscence of prosthetic valve or new valvular regurgitation   Minor Criteria  1) Fever > 38.0° C (100.4° F) 2) Immunologic phenomena: glomerulonephritis, Osler nodes, Roth spots, rheumatoid factor 3) Vascular phenomena: arterial emboli, pulmonary infarcts, mycotic aneurysms, intracranial bleed, conjunctival hemorrhages, Janeway lesions 4) Echocardiographic findings: consistent with endocarditis but do not meet a major criterion as noted above 5) Predisposing heart condition or intravenous drug use 6) Microbiological evidence: positive blood culture but does not meet a major criterion as noted above or serological evidence of active infection with organism consistent with endocarditis (excluding coag neg staph, and other common contaminants)
Most useful tool to predict response to cardiac resynchronization therapy	ECG Despite the wide availability of clinical and investigational imaging modalities to evaluate the patient response to CRT with variable accuracy, a simple 12-lead remains the standard test for patient selection. Several ECG parameters used to predict the response to CRT, including baseline rhythm, QRS duration, QRS morphology, LV activation sequence, and the PR interval.
