#separator:tab
#html:false
Etiology of AIDS:    Infectious agent - HIV-1 and 2 (retrovirus)   Viral attachment molecule (also shed) - gp120 Molecular targets for attachment - CD4, CXCR4 and CCR5 Viral entry molecule - gp41   Cellular targets - [...] and [...]   Retroviru genome insertion location - insertion of genome next to IL-2 (promoter is NFkB) so when the cell makes IL-2 --> virus replication   Classic pathogenesis - killing of infected CD4+ cells + non-infected CD4+ cells that have bound shed gp120 with CCR5, mediated by cytotoxic T cells   Macrophage/dendritic involvement:  Molecular target - CCR5 Initial infection - M(macrophage)-tropic, then progresses to T(lymphocyte)-tropic Most important effect of macrophage infection - resistant to cytopathic effects --> viral reservoir + transmission into CNS via microglia   Diagnosis: Combination immunoassay that detects HIV-1 and HIV-2 antibodies and HIV-1 p24 antigenLaboratory Testing for the Diagnosis of HIV Infection: Updated Recommendations	Etiology of AIDS:    Infectious agent - HIV-1 and 2 (retrovirus)   Viral attachment molecule (also shed) - gp120 Molecular targets for attachment - CD4, CXCR4 and CCR5 Viral entry molecule - gp41   Cellular targets - CD4 lymphocytes and macrophages (main cause of relapses because it can hide in macrophages)   Retroviru genome insertion location - insertion of genome next to IL-2 (promoter is NFkB) so when the cell makes IL-2 --> virus replication   Classic pathogenesis - killing of infected CD4+ cells + non-infected CD4+ cells that have bound shed gp120 with CCR5, mediated by cytotoxic T cells   Macrophage/dendritic involvement:  Molecular target - CCR5 Initial infection - M(macrophage)-tropic, then progresses to T(lymphocyte)-tropic Most important effect of macrophage infection - resistant to cytopathic effects --> viral reservoir + transmission into CNS via microglia   Diagnosis: Combination immunoassay that detects HIV-1 and HIV-2 antibodies and HIV-1 p24 antigenLaboratory Testing for the Diagnosis of HIV Infection: Updated Recommendations
Etiology of AIDS:    Infectious agent - HIV-1 and 2 (retrovirus)   Viral attachment molecule (also shed) - [...] Molecular targets for attachment - [...], [...] and [...] Viral entry molecule - [...]   Cellular targets - CD4 lymphocytes and macrophages (main cause of relapses because it can hide in macrophages)   Retroviru genome insertion location - insertion of genome next to IL-2 (promoter is NFkB) so when the cell makes IL-2 --> virus replication   Classic pathogenesis - killing of infected CD4+ cells + non-infected CD4+ cells that have bound shed gp120 with CCR5, mediated by cytotoxic T cells   Macrophage/dendritic involvement:  Molecular target - CCR5 Initial infection - M(macrophage)-tropic, then progresses to T(lymphocyte)-tropic Most important effect of macrophage infection - resistant to cytopathic effects --> viral reservoir + transmission into CNS via microglia   Diagnosis: Combination immunoassay that detects HIV-1 and HIV-2 antibodies and HIV-1 p24 antigenLaboratory Testing for the Diagnosis of HIV Infection: Updated Recommendations	Etiology of AIDS:    Infectious agent - HIV-1 and 2 (retrovirus)   Viral attachment molecule (also shed) - gp120 Molecular targets for attachment - CD4, CXCR4 and CCR5 Viral entry molecule - gp41   Cellular targets - CD4 lymphocytes and macrophages (main cause of relapses because it can hide in macrophages)   Retroviru genome insertion location - insertion of genome next to IL-2 (promoter is NFkB) so when the cell makes IL-2 --> virus replication   Classic pathogenesis - killing of infected CD4+ cells + non-infected CD4+ cells that have bound shed gp120 with CCR5, mediated by cytotoxic T cells   Macrophage/dendritic involvement:  Molecular target - CCR5 Initial infection - M(macrophage)-tropic, then progresses to T(lymphocyte)-tropic Most important effect of macrophage infection - resistant to cytopathic effects --> viral reservoir + transmission into CNS via microglia   Diagnosis: Combination immunoassay that detects HIV-1 and HIV-2 antibodies and HIV-1 p24 antigenLaboratory Testing for the Diagnosis of HIV Infection: Updated Recommendations
Etiology of AIDS:    Infectious agent - [...]   Viral attachment molecule (also shed) - gp120 Molecular targets for attachment - CD4, CXCR4 and CCR5 Viral entry molecule - gp41   Cellular targets - CD4 lymphocytes and macrophages (main cause of relapses because it can hide in macrophages)   Retroviru genome insertion location - insertion of genome next to IL-2 (promoter is NFkB) so when the cell makes IL-2 --> virus replication   Classic pathogenesis - killing of infected CD4+ cells + non-infected CD4+ cells that have bound shed gp120 with CCR5, mediated by cytotoxic T cells   Macrophage/dendritic involvement:  Molecular target - CCR5 Initial infection - M(macrophage)-tropic, then progresses to T(lymphocyte)-tropic Most important effect of macrophage infection - resistant to cytopathic effects --> viral reservoir + transmission into CNS via microglia   Diagnosis: Combination immunoassay that detects HIV-1 and HIV-2 antibodies and HIV-1 p24 antigenLaboratory Testing for the Diagnosis of HIV Infection: Updated Recommendations	Etiology of AIDS:    Infectious agent - HIV-1 and 2 (retrovirus)   Viral attachment molecule (also shed) - gp120 Molecular targets for attachment - CD4, CXCR4 and CCR5 Viral entry molecule - gp41   Cellular targets - CD4 lymphocytes and macrophages (main cause of relapses because it can hide in macrophages)   Retroviru genome insertion location - insertion of genome next to IL-2 (promoter is NFkB) so when the cell makes IL-2 --> virus replication   Classic pathogenesis - killing of infected CD4+ cells + non-infected CD4+ cells that have bound shed gp120 with CCR5, mediated by cytotoxic T cells   Macrophage/dendritic involvement:  Molecular target - CCR5 Initial infection - M(macrophage)-tropic, then progresses to T(lymphocyte)-tropic Most important effect of macrophage infection - resistant to cytopathic effects --> viral reservoir + transmission into CNS via microglia   Diagnosis: Combination immunoassay that detects HIV-1 and HIV-2 antibodies and HIV-1 p24 antigenLaboratory Testing for the Diagnosis of HIV Infection: Updated Recommendations
Etiology of AIDS:    Infectious agent - HIV-1 and 2 (retrovirus)   Viral attachment molecule (also shed) - gp120 Molecular targets for attachment - CD4, CXCR4 and CCR5 Viral entry molecule - gp41   Cellular targets - CD4 lymphocytes and macrophages (main cause of relapses because it can hide in macrophages)   Retroviru genome insertion location - [...]   Classic pathogenesis - killing of infected CD4+ cells + non-infected CD4+ cells that have bound shed gp120 with CCR5, mediated by cytotoxic T cells   Macrophage/dendritic involvement:  Molecular target - CCR5 Initial infection - M(macrophage)-tropic, then progresses to T(lymphocyte)-tropic Most important effect of macrophage infection - resistant to cytopathic effects --> viral reservoir + transmission into CNS via microglia   Diagnosis: Combination immunoassay that detects HIV-1 and HIV-2 antibodies and HIV-1 p24 antigenLaboratory Testing for the Diagnosis of HIV Infection: Updated Recommendations	Etiology of AIDS:    Infectious agent - HIV-1 and 2 (retrovirus)   Viral attachment molecule (also shed) - gp120 Molecular targets for attachment - CD4, CXCR4 and CCR5 Viral entry molecule - gp41   Cellular targets - CD4 lymphocytes and macrophages (main cause of relapses because it can hide in macrophages)   Retroviru genome insertion location - insertion of genome next to IL-2 (promoter is NFkB) so when the cell makes IL-2 --> virus replication   Classic pathogenesis - killing of infected CD4+ cells + non-infected CD4+ cells that have bound shed gp120 with CCR5, mediated by cytotoxic T cells   Macrophage/dendritic involvement:  Molecular target - CCR5 Initial infection - M(macrophage)-tropic, then progresses to T(lymphocyte)-tropic Most important effect of macrophage infection - resistant to cytopathic effects --> viral reservoir + transmission into CNS via microglia   Diagnosis: Combination immunoassay that detects HIV-1 and HIV-2 antibodies and HIV-1 p24 antigenLaboratory Testing for the Diagnosis of HIV Infection: Updated Recommendations
Etiology of AIDS:    Infectious agent - HIV-1 and 2 (retrovirus)   Viral attachment molecule (also shed) - gp120 Molecular targets for attachment - CD4, CXCR4 and CCR5 Viral entry molecule - gp41   Cellular targets - CD4 lymphocytes and macrophages (main cause of relapses because it can hide in macrophages)   Retroviru genome insertion location - insertion of genome next to IL-2 (promoter is NFkB) so when the cell makes IL-2 --> virus replication   Classic pathogenesis - [...]   Macrophage/dendritic involvement:  Molecular target - CCR5 Initial infection - M(macrophage)-tropic, then progresses to T(lymphocyte)-tropic Most important effect of macrophage infection - resistant to cytopathic effects --> viral reservoir + transmission into CNS via microglia   Diagnosis: Combination immunoassay that detects HIV-1 and HIV-2 antibodies and HIV-1 p24 antigenLaboratory Testing for the Diagnosis of HIV Infection: Updated Recommendations	Etiology of AIDS:    Infectious agent - HIV-1 and 2 (retrovirus)   Viral attachment molecule (also shed) - gp120 Molecular targets for attachment - CD4, CXCR4 and CCR5 Viral entry molecule - gp41   Cellular targets - CD4 lymphocytes and macrophages (main cause of relapses because it can hide in macrophages)   Retroviru genome insertion location - insertion of genome next to IL-2 (promoter is NFkB) so when the cell makes IL-2 --> virus replication   Classic pathogenesis - killing of infected CD4+ cells + non-infected CD4+ cells that have bound shed gp120 with CCR5, mediated by cytotoxic T cells   Macrophage/dendritic involvement:  Molecular target - CCR5 Initial infection - M(macrophage)-tropic, then progresses to T(lymphocyte)-tropic Most important effect of macrophage infection - resistant to cytopathic effects --> viral reservoir + transmission into CNS via microglia   Diagnosis: Combination immunoassay that detects HIV-1 and HIV-2 antibodies and HIV-1 p24 antigenLaboratory Testing for the Diagnosis of HIV Infection: Updated Recommendations
Etiology of AIDS:    Infectious agent - HIV-1 and 2 (retrovirus)   Viral attachment molecule (also shed) - gp120 Molecular targets for attachment - CD4, CXCR4 and CCR5 Viral entry molecule - gp41   Cellular targets - CD4 lymphocytes and macrophages (main cause of relapses because it can hide in macrophages)   Retroviru genome insertion location - insertion of genome next to IL-2 (promoter is NFkB) so when the cell makes IL-2 --> virus replication   Classic pathogenesis - killing of infected CD4+ cells + non-infected CD4+ cells that have bound shed gp120 with CCR5, mediated by cytotoxic T cells   Macrophage/dendritic involvement:  Molecular target - [...] Initial infection - [...], then progresses to [...]-tropic Most important effect of macrophage infection - [...]   Diagnosis: [...]Laboratory Testing for the Diagnosis of HIV Infection: Updated Recommendations	Etiology of AIDS:    Infectious agent - HIV-1 and 2 (retrovirus)   Viral attachment molecule (also shed) - gp120 Molecular targets for attachment - CD4, CXCR4 and CCR5 Viral entry molecule - gp41   Cellular targets - CD4 lymphocytes and macrophages (main cause of relapses because it can hide in macrophages)   Retroviru genome insertion location - insertion of genome next to IL-2 (promoter is NFkB) so when the cell makes IL-2 --> virus replication   Classic pathogenesis - killing of infected CD4+ cells + non-infected CD4+ cells that have bound shed gp120 with CCR5, mediated by cytotoxic T cells   Macrophage/dendritic involvement:  Molecular target - CCR5 Initial infection - M(macrophage)-tropic, then progresses to T(lymphocyte)-tropic Most important effect of macrophage infection - resistant to cytopathic effects --> viral reservoir + transmission into CNS via microglia   Diagnosis: Combination immunoassay that detects HIV-1 and HIV-2 antibodies and HIV-1 p24 antigenLaboratory Testing for the Diagnosis of HIV Infection: Updated Recommendations
Pneumonia secondary to sepsis with pathogens that have polysaccharide capsules:    Main risk factor - [...]    9 organisms:  Escherichia coli Streptococcus pneumoniae Salmonella Klebsiella pneumoniae Haemophilus influenzae Pseudomonas aeruginosa Neisseria meningitidis Bacteroides fragilis Cryptococcus neoformans (yeast)	"Pneumonia secondary to sepsis with pathogens that have polysaccharide capsules:    Main risk factor - asplenia    9 organisms:  Escherichia coli Streptococcus pneumoniae Salmonella Klebsiella pneumoniae Haemophilus influenzae Pseudomonas aeruginosa Neisseria meningitidis Bacteroides fragilis Cryptococcus neoformans (yeast)  ""Even Some Super Killers Have Pretty Nice Big Capsules"""
Pneumonia secondary to sepsis with pathogens that have polysaccharide capsules:    Main risk factor - asplenia    9 organisms:  [...] [...] [...] [...] [...] [...] [...] [...] [...]	"Pneumonia secondary to sepsis with pathogens that have polysaccharide capsules:    Main risk factor - asplenia    9 organisms:  Escherichia coli Streptococcus pneumoniae Salmonella Klebsiella pneumoniae Haemophilus influenzae Pseudomonas aeruginosa Neisseria meningitidis Bacteroides fragilis Cryptococcus neoformans (yeast)  ""Even Some Super Killers Have Pretty Nice Big Capsules"""
Drug of choice for systemic mycosis and meningitis due to cryptococcus or candida? (synergistic 2 drug combination)	Amphotericin B + flucytosine
2 coreceptors used for HIV entry into target cells?	CCR5 and CXCR4
Name the Encapsulated Organisms that people with functional asplenia are susceptable to	SHiNE KiSS: Streptococcus Pneumoniae, Haemophilus Influenzae B, Neisseria Meningitis, Escherichia Coli, Klebsiella Pneumoniea, Salmonella, Streptococcus Agalactae (Group B Strep)
Cause of Pityriasis Versicolor	Malessezia Furfur Looks like vitiligo but the depigmentation is temporary. Treated with antifungal wash in the shower.
When do you commence HAART?	Everyone should start HAART at diagnosis1) Opportunistic infection (AIDs-defining illness), except for TB. In TB commence after 2-8 weeks of treatment to avoid immune reconstitution syndrome 2) CD4 cell count <500 3) Any count if patient is pregnant 4) HIV-associated nephropathy 5) HBV co-infection 6) Viral load greater than 100,000/mcl 7) Risk factors for non-AIDs related cancers or cardiac disease Do not stop HAART therapy once commenced. Primary goal of HAART is reduced viral load. HIV/AIDs accelerates IHD or non-AIDs related cancers
What organism are patients with iron overload states predisposed to being infected with? (3)	"Yersinia enterocolitica, Listeria Monocytogenes & Vibrio Vulnificus ""Iron-loving Microbes"""
E. Coli EHEC incubation period, typical food, clinical features	1-8 days - undercooked beef, raw fruits/vegetables, unpasteurised mild/juice - severe bloody diarrhoea, vomiting, abdominal pain Antibiotics may promote the development of HUS. See http://www.cdc.gov/mmwr/preview/mmwrhtml/rr5304a1.htm
E. Coli ETEC incubation period, typical food, clinical features	1-3 days - water or food contaminated with human feces - watery diarrhoea primarily Antibiotics can be used if very much severe (TMP-SMX). See http://www.cdc.gov/mmwr/preview/mmwrhtml/rr5304a1.htm
Staph Aureus incubation period, typical food, clinical features	1-6 hours - improperly or unrefrigerated meats, potato, egg, salads - sudden onset of nausea & vomiting. Fever + diarrhoea may be present See http://www.cdc.gov/mmwr/preview/mmwrhtml/rr5304a1.htm
Bacillus Cereus incubation period, typical food, clinical features	6-12 hours - improperly stored or undercooked rice - sudden onset of severe nausea & vomiting Supportive care. See http://www.cdc.gov/mmwr/preview/mmwrhtml/rr5304a1.htm
Campylobacter Jejuni incubation period, typical food, clinical features	2-5 days - raw and undercooked poultry, unpasteurized milk, contaminated water - bloody diarrhoea, abdominal pain/cramps, fever assoc. with guillian-barre. See http://www.cdc.gov/mmwr/preview/mmwrhtml/rr5304a1.htm
Salmonella spp. incubation period, typical food, clinical features	12-72 hours - contaminated eggs, poultry & cheese, contaminated raw fruits and vegetables - diarrhoea fever & abdominal cramps Salmonella typhi associated with contamination of water supplies and street food vendors. See http://www.cdc.gov/mmwr/preview/mmwrhtml/rr5304a1.htm
Vibrio Cholera incubation period, typical food, clinical features	1-3 days - contaminated water, street vendor food - profuse watery diarrhoea which can cause death within hours See http://www.cdc.gov/mmwr/preview/mmwrhtml/rr5304a1.htm
Hepatitis A incubation period, typical food, clinical features	28 days - shellfish from contaminated waters, raw produce, uncooked foods, faecal oral spread - dark urine, jaundice, diarrhoea and flu-like symptoms See http://www.cdc.gov/mmwr/preview/mmwrhtml/rr5304a1.htm
Rotavirus incubation period, typical food, clinical features	1-3 days - fecally contaminated foods - vomiting, watery diarrhoea, low-grade fever, temporary lactose intolerance See http://www.cdc.gov/mmwr/preview/mmwrhtml/rr5304a1.htm
First line treatment of P. malariae	Artemether + Lumefantrine
What antibiotics are least likely to cause C. Diff?	Tetracyclines, aminoglycosides, metronidazole and vancomycin (oral or IV)
What is used for malaria prophylaxis?	atovaquone + proguanil
When is polymixin B used?	Gram (-) infections resistant to ceftriaxone, tazocin and meropenem
What infections are common in an HIV(+) patients with a CD4 count: 200-500 cells/uL, 50-200 cells/uL and <50 cells/uL?	200-500 cells/uL - HSV, pneumococcal pneumonia, oral candidiasis 50-200 cells/uL - PJP pneumonia, CNS toxoplasmosis, cryptococcus, kaposi’s sarcoma, non-hodgkin’s lymphoma, primary CNS lymphoma <50 cells/uL - Disseminated mycobacterium avium complex, CMV retinitis, cryptosporidiosis
What is the duration of post-exposure prophylaxis in HIV	28-day course
What is the regimen of post-exposure prophylaxis in HIV?	Tenofovir combined with either lamivudine (3TC) or emtricitabine (FTC). The recommended third drug is ritonavir-boosted lopinavir (LPV/r) Early initiation of antiretroviral therapy, compared with delayed therapy, resulted in a relative reduction of 96% in the number of linked HIV transmissions in serodiscordant heterosexual couples. Therefore the transmission risk for vaginal intercourse with an HIV positive partner with an undetectable viral load may be estimated to be decreased by a factor of 20. PEP should be prescribed as soon as possible after the exposure and within 72 hours. A 28-day course of PEP is recommended. HIV antibody testing is conducted at baseline, and at 4 to 6 weeks and 3 months after exposure.Apart from zidovudine (AZT), there is no evidence to support the use of one drug or class of drug over another. 2-drug regimens: 2 nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NRTI) or an NRTI plus a nucleotide reverse transcriptase inhibitor (NtRTI) 3-drug regimens: 2 NRTIs plus an NtRTI or 2 NRTIs (may include an NtRTI) plus a protease inhibitor (PI) From the Australian National Guidelines
What does S. Gallolyticus, S. Infantarius, S. Lutetiensis or S. Pasteurianus indicate?	Bowel cancer - this is the previously named Strep. Bovis
What are the organisms that cause hemolytic uremic syndrome?	EHEC (shiga-toxin producing), Shigella & Campylobacter. Viruses can also be implicated
Key Features of the Hemolytic Uremic Syndrome (5)	Bloody diarrhoea, microangiopathic hemolytic anemia (schistocytes), thrombocytopenia & renal failure, normal INR/APTT This is a thrombotic microangiopathy syndrome much like TTP and DIC. Unlike DIC, there is no consumption of clotting factors - normal INR/APTT, d-dimers, fibrinogen. In TTP the encephalopathy is more prominent, while in HUS the renal failure part of the presentation dominates.
When is prophylaxis for IE indicated (4) ?	1) Prosthetic cardiac valve or prosthetic material used for cardiac valve repair  2) Previous infective endocarditis 3) Cardiac transplantation with the subsequent development of cardiac valvulopathy 4) Congenital heart disease but only if it involves: Unrepaired cyanotic defects, including palliative shunts and conduits Completely repaired defects with prosthetic material or devices whether placed by surgery or catheter intervention, during the first 6 months after the procedure (after which the prosthetic material is likely to have been endothelialised) Repaired defects with residual defects at or adjacent to the site of a prosthetic patch or device (which inhibit endothelialisation
Gram Positive Bacteria	Corynebacterium, actinomyces, nocardia, bacillus, listeria, clostridium (Staph and strep too) Corny Actors Knock Back Listerine in the Closet   All bacilli are gram negative except LDATTA: L - ListeriaD - DiphtheriaA - ActinomycetesT - Tetani ClostridiumT - TB / MycobacteriumA - Anthrax bacillus
Gram positive rods	Listeria, Diptheria, Actinomyces, Tetani (clostridium), Anthrax / bacillus All bacilli are gram negative except LDATTA: L - ListeriaD - DiphtheriaA - ActinomycetesT - Tetani ClostridiumA - Anthrax bacillus
Anti-DNAse-B	Post-strep Glomerulonephritis 15% of patients will have an anti-streptolysin-O titre that is negative, especially if the primary infection was a skin infection (impetigo)
Recent return from tropics, headache, very high fever, petechiae and hemorragic diathesis. What is the vector?	Mosquito Dengue fever is a virus transmitted from a mosquito
How to diagnose TB in a patient with a pleural effusion suspected to be tuberculosis:	Pleural Biopsy  Pleural biopsy will grow an organism in 80% of cases, while a pleural fluid sample will only grow TB in 20% of cases
4 Features of AIDS dementia	A - Atrophy of the cortex I - Impairment of cognition D - Demyelination - patchy fluffy white matter changes S - Six months until death
Panton–Valentine leukocidin (PVL)	β-pore-forming toxin found in Staph. Aureus causing pyogenic skin infections  PVL is a cytotoxin—one of the β-pore-forming toxins. The presence of PVL is associated with increased virulence of certain strains (isolates) of Staphylococcus aureus. It is present in the majority of community-associated Methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (CA-MRSA) isolates studied and is the cause of necrotic lesions involving the skin or mucosa, including necrotic hemorrhagic pneumonia. PVL creates pores in the membranes of infected cells. PVL is produced from the genetic material of a bacteriophage that infects Staphylococcus aureus, making it more virulent.
β-pore-forming toxin found in Staph. Aureus causing pyogenic skin infections	Panton–Valentine leukocidin (PVL)  PVL is a cytotoxin—one of the β-pore-forming toxins. The presence of PVL is associated with increased virulence of certain strains (isolates) of Staphylococcus aureus. It is present in the majority of community-associated Methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (CA-MRSA) isolates studied and is the cause of necrotic lesions involving the skin or mucosa, including necrotic hemorrhagic pneumonia. PVL creates pores in the membranes of infected cells. PVL is produced from the genetic material of a bacteriophage that infects Staphylococcus aureus, making it more virulent.
List the 6 live attenuated vaccines (LAV)	BCG - Tuberculosis  Oral Polio/Typhoid Yellow Fever Measles-Mumps-Rubella Influenza Rotavirus     Anagram - BOYMIR
Following a renal transplant, what is the manifestation of the BK virus?	Nephropathy
What is the management of BK-virus induced nephropathy?	First line: Reduction in overall immunosuppression Second line: Leflunomide The rationale behind using leflunomide in BKVAN comes from its combined immunosuppressive and antiviral properties.    The BK virus rarely causes disease; many people who are infected with this virus are asymptomatic. If symptoms do appear, they tend to be mild: respiratory infection or fever. These are known as primary BK infections.   The virus then disseminates to the kidneys and urinary tract where it persists for the life of the individual. It is thought that up to 80% of the population contains a latent form of this virus, which remains latent until the body undergoes some form of immunosuppression. Typically, this is in the setting of kidney transplantation or multi-organ transplantation. Presentation in these immunocompromised individuals is much more severe. Clinical manifestations include renal dysfunction (seen by a progressive rise in serum creatinine), and an abnormal urinalysis revealing renal tubular cells and inflammatory cells.
Describe the differences between endemic, pandemic and epidemic	Endemic is an adjective that refers to a disease or condition regularly found among particular people or in a certain area. It refers to the constant presence and/or usual prevalence of a disease or infectious agent in a population within a geographic area.   Epidemic refers to an increase, often sudden, in the number of cases of a disease above what is normally expected in that population in that area.   Pandemic refers to an epidemic that has spread over several countries or continents, usually affecting a large number of people.
A healthcare worker whom has evidence of past history of successful Hep B vaccination (HbsAb + 10 years ago) has a needlestick injury and the patient is known to have HBsAg. Repeat testing of the healthcare worker shows HbsAb(-). What further management is required?	No Treatment
When do you administer Hep B IVIG as post-exposure prophylaxis?	Unvaccinated Known non-responder to Hep B vaccination
A primary pneumothorax occur [...] more likely in patients with HIV/AIDs then in the normal population   [...] is the most common cause of secondary pneumothorax in the HIV population	A primary pneumothorax occur 450x more likely in patients with HIV/AIDs then in the normal population   Pneumocystis pneumoniae is the most common cause of secondary pneumothorax in the HIV population  Spontaneous pneumothorax occurs 450 times more frequently in patients with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS) versus the general population and is now the leading cause of nontraumatic pneumothorax in the urban population, to include both those with and without AIDS. At some medical centers, more than 50% of patients with spontaneous pneumothorax have AIDS. The incidence of spontaneous pneumothorax in human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)-seropositive individuals is estimated to be about 2-5% of overall total cases. Immune status seems to influence this incidence, as it is related to the appearance of opportunistic lung infections, which are favored by the immunodeficiency. In a 3-year period study of 599 HIV-infected patients by Afessa et al., pneumothorax developed in 1.2% of hospital admissions, while in a recent observational study by Rivero et al., over 105 HIV-seropositive patients with spontaneous pneumothorax, the incidence of this complication in non-treated HIV-infected patients was estimated to be 1.06%.
Lipodystrophy in HIV patients on NNRTIs and especially protease inhibitors causes lipo[...] and lipo[...]	Lipodystrophy in HIV patients on NNRTIs and especially protease inhibitors causes lipoatrophy and lipohypertrophy
Vaccination regimen post-splenectomy	S. pneumoniae Haemophilus influenzae type b Neisseria meningitidis Influenza (annually)
Mechanism of resistance to carbapenems? Management?	"blaNDM-1 gene producing New Delhi metallo-beta-lactamase 1   Management: First Line: Colistin Second Line: Tigecycline Third Line: Fosfomycin Typically found in returned travellers from India (MCQ tactic). In August 2010, the first reported death due to bacteria expressing the NDM-1 enzyme was recorded after a Belgian man, who had become infected while being treated in a hospital in Pakistan, died despite being administered colistin. A doctor involved in his treatment said: ""He was involved in a car accident during a trip to Pakistan. He was hospitalised with a major leg injury and then repatriated to Belgium, but he was already infected""."
Mechanism of action of vancomycin	Binds cell wall precursors D-Ala-D-Ala muramyl pentapeptide preventing polymerization Cell wall inhibitor, thus only works on gram (+)
Mechanism of VRE & Management of VRE	Vancomycin-sensitive enterococci typically obtain new DNA in the form of plasmids or transposons which encode genes that confer vancomycin resistance. The mechanism of resistance to vancomycin found in enterococcus involves the alteration of the peptidoglycan synthesis pathway.     Variations in peptidoglycan (Normal is D-Ala-D-Ala) :  D-alanyl-D-lactate variation results in the loss of one hydrogen-bonding interaction (four, as opposed to five for D-alanyl-D-alanine) being possible between vancomycin and the peptide. The D-alanyl-D-serine variation causes a six-fold loss of affinity between vancomycin and the peptide.    Van-A: Resistant to vancomycin and teicoplanin, treat with linezolid Van-B: Moderate resistance to vancomycin, treat with teicoplanin Van-C: Low level resistance to vancomycin, treat with teicoplanin
Mechanisms of Aminioglycoside resistance	Ribosome alteration High level resistance to streptomycin and spectinomycin can result from single step mutations in chromosomal genes encoding ribosomal proteins: rpsL (or strA), rpsD (or ramA or sud2), rpsE (eps or spc or spcA). Mutations in strC (or strB) generate a low-level streptomycin resistance.   Decreased permeability Absence of or alteration in the aminoglycoside transport system, inadequate membrane potential, modification in the LPS (lipopolysacchaccarides) phenotype can result in a cross resistance to all aminoglycosides.   Inactivation of aminoglycosides These enzymes are classified into three major classes according to the type modification:  AAC (acetyltransferases) ANT (nucleotidyltransferases or adenyltransferases) APH (phosphotransferases)
In what age group are BRAF mutations more common in?	Younger ages groups
Factors associated with increased virulence of NAP-1/027 strain of C. Difficile (4)	Fluroquinolone resistance Production of binary toxin Increased production of toxin A and B (major virulence factor) Deletion mutation in tcdC gene
HACEK Organisms   Most common cause of [...] Are all gram [...] These organisms are found [...]   H - Haemophilus parainfluenzae, Haemophilus aphrophilus, Haemophilus paraphrophilus A - Actinobacillus actinomycetemcomitans C - Cardiobacterium hominis E - Eikenella corrodens K - Kingella species   Management: 4-6 weeks of Ceftriaxone/beta-lactam with gram (-) coverage	HACEK Organisms   Most common cause of gram (-) subacute bacterial endocarditis Are all gram (-) bacilli These organisms are found as part of the normal human oral flora   H - Haemophilus parainfluenzae, Haemophilus aphrophilus, Haemophilus paraphrophilus A - Actinobacillus actinomycetemcomitans C - Cardiobacterium hominis E - Eikenella corrodens K - Kingella species   Management: 4-6 weeks of Ceftriaxone/beta-lactam with gram (-) coverage
HACEK Organisms   Most common cause of gram (-) subacute bacterial endocarditis Are all gram (-) bacilli These organisms are found as part of the normal human oral flora   H - [...] A - [...] C - [...] E - [...] K - [...]   Management: 4-6 weeks of Ceftriaxone/beta-lactam with gram (-) coverage	HACEK Organisms   Most common cause of gram (-) subacute bacterial endocarditis Are all gram (-) bacilli These organisms are found as part of the normal human oral flora   H - Haemophilus parainfluenzae, Haemophilus aphrophilus, Haemophilus paraphrophilus A - Actinobacillus actinomycetemcomitans C - Cardiobacterium hominis E - Eikenella corrodens K - Kingella species   Management: 4-6 weeks of Ceftriaxone/beta-lactam with gram (-) coverage
HACEK Organisms   Most common cause of gram (-) subacute bacterial endocarditis Are all gram (-) bacilli These organisms are found as part of the normal human oral flora   H - Haemophilus parainfluenzae, Haemophilus aphrophilus, Haemophilus paraphrophilus A - Actinobacillus actinomycetemcomitans C - Cardiobacterium hominis E - Eikenella corrodens K - Kingella species   Management: [...]	HACEK Organisms   Most common cause of gram (-) subacute bacterial endocarditis Are all gram (-) bacilli These organisms are found as part of the normal human oral flora   H - Haemophilus parainfluenzae, Haemophilus aphrophilus, Haemophilus paraphrophilus A - Actinobacillus actinomycetemcomitans C - Cardiobacterium hominis E - Eikenella corrodens K - Kingella species   Management: 4-6 weeks of Ceftriaxone/beta-lactam with gram (-) coverage
HIV prophylaxis protocols	HIV + PPD (+) for M. Tuberculosis, (>5mm) or if PPD (-) but anergy test is (-) for immune response - Isoniazid + pyridoxine (B6) for 9-12 months   CD4<300 - Mucosal Candidiasis, fluconazole - ONLY if symptomatic CD4<200, PJP Prophylaxis or CD4<14% or weight loss or oral candidiasis - oral TMP-SMX CD4<100 - Toxoplasmosis - oral TMP-SMX CD4<75 - M. Avium - azithromycin/clarithromycin CD4<50 - CMV - ganciclovir PPD test is positive in HIV individuals if the induration is >5mm.  Anergy test should also be administered at the time of mantoux testing. Anergy testing is a diagnostic procedure used to obtain information regarding the competence of the cellular immune system. When a clinician elects to use anergy testing as part of a multifactorial assessment of a person's risk for TB, the Mantoux-method anergy tests (mumps and Candida), used together, with cut-off diameters of 5 mm of induration, are recommended.    PJP Prophylaxis Indications: CD4 count <200 cells/microL or CD4 count percentage <14 percent Oropharyngeal candidiasis CD4 cell count between 200 and 250 cells/microL when frequent monitoring (eg, every three months) of CD4 cell counts is not possible
Duration of tricuspid valve antibiotics with no pulmonary septic emboli	2 weeks
Non-HIV Indications for PJP Prophylaxis	A CATS TAGS   Alemtuzumab   CLL - purine analogue with cyclophosphomide ALL Temozolomide + concomitant radiotherapy Severe primary immunodeficiencies   TNF-apha + high-dose glucocorticoids Allogenic BMT + selected Autologous BMT Glucocorticoids ≥20mg daily + other immunosuppression (disease/drug) Solid organ transplants      Patients receiving a glucocorticoid dose equivalent to ≥20 mg of prednisone daily for one month or longer who also have another cause of immunocompromise (eg, certain hematologic malignancies or a second immunosuppressive drug)   Patients receiving alemtuzumab should receive PCP prophylaxis for a minimum of two months after completion of therapy or until the CD4 count is >200 cells/microL, whichever occurs later    Patients receiving concomitant temozolomide and radiotherapy, until recovery of lymphopenia   Patients with acute lymphocytic leukemia    Allogeneic HCT recipients beginning after engraftment and continuing for as long as immunosuppressive therapy is given; the typical duration of PCP prophylaxis is six months in allogeneic HCT recipients but is longer in those requiring treatment for graft-versus-host disease    Selected autologous HCT recipients, including those who have an underlying hematologic malignancy, such as lymphoma, myeloma, or leukemia, especially when intensive treatment or conditioning regimens have included a purine analog (eg, fludarabine, cladribine) or high-dose glucocorticoids    Solid organ transplant recipients, often for at least six months to one year following transplantation and during periods of high doses of immunosuppressive medications (eg, during treatment for acute rejection)    Patients with certain primary immunodeficiencies (eg, severe combined immunodeficiency, idiopathic CD4 T-lymphocytopenia, hyper-IgM syndrome)    Patients receiving a purine analog, such as fludarabine, in combination with cyclophosphamide (some patients with CLL)   Some authorities recommend PCP prophylaxis for patients receiving certain combinations of immunosuppressive drugs. As an example, PCP prophylaxis should be considered in patients treated with tumor necrosis factor-alpha inhibitors who are also receiving high-dose glucocorticoids or other intensive immunosuppression. PCP prophylaxis should also be considered in patients receiving temsirolimus in combination with glucocorticoids or other immunosuppressive agents.
Describe the 3 phases of dengue fever: fevers, hematocrit, platelet count, virus count, IgM levels	
