#separator:tab
#html:false
[...]:    Classic patient - old smoking man  (or cardiac, renal, hematologic diseases, transplant recipitents)   Classic transmission scenario - water source (e.g. inhalation from air conditioner or aspiration from shower)   Type of pneumonia - necrotizing bronchopneumonia   Pathohistology - intra-alveolar accumulation of inflammatory cells and fibrin, small vasculitis and necrosis   Rapid diagnostic test - rapid latex agglutination test (using sputum)	Legionnaires disease (legionella pneumophila infection):    Classic patient - old smoking man  (or cardiac, renal, hematologic diseases, transplant recipitents)   Classic transmission scenario - water source (e.g. inhalation from air conditioner or aspiration from shower)   Type of pneumonia - necrotizing bronchopneumonia   Pathohistology - intra-alveolar accumulation of inflammatory cells and fibrin, small vasculitis and necrosis   Rapid diagnostic test - rapid latex agglutination test (using sputum)
Legionnaires disease (legionella pneumophila infection):    Classic patient - [...]   Classic transmission scenario - [...]   Type of pneumonia - necrotizing bronchopneumonia   Pathohistology - intra-alveolar accumulation of inflammatory cells and fibrin, small vasculitis and necrosis   Rapid diagnostic test - rapid latex agglutination test (using sputum)	Legionnaires disease (legionella pneumophila infection):    Classic patient - old smoking man  (or cardiac, renal, hematologic diseases, transplant recipitents)   Classic transmission scenario - water source (e.g. inhalation from air conditioner or aspiration from shower)   Type of pneumonia - necrotizing bronchopneumonia   Pathohistology - intra-alveolar accumulation of inflammatory cells and fibrin, small vasculitis and necrosis   Rapid diagnostic test - rapid latex agglutination test (using sputum)
Legionnaires disease (legionella pneumophila infection):    Classic patient - old smoking man  (or cardiac, renal, hematologic diseases, transplant recipitents)   Classic transmission scenario - water source (e.g. inhalation from air conditioner or aspiration from shower)   Type of pneumonia - [...]   Pathohistology - [...]   Rapid diagnostic test - rapid latex agglutination test (using sputum)	Legionnaires disease (legionella pneumophila infection):    Classic patient - old smoking man  (or cardiac, renal, hematologic diseases, transplant recipitents)   Classic transmission scenario - water source (e.g. inhalation from air conditioner or aspiration from shower)   Type of pneumonia - necrotizing bronchopneumonia   Pathohistology - intra-alveolar accumulation of inflammatory cells and fibrin, small vasculitis and necrosis   Rapid diagnostic test - rapid latex agglutination test (using sputum)
Legionnaires disease (legionella pneumophila infection):    Classic patient - old smoking man  (or cardiac, renal, hematologic diseases, transplant recipitents)   Classic transmission scenario - water source (e.g. inhalation from air conditioner or aspiration from shower)   Type of pneumonia - necrotizing bronchopneumonia   Pathohistology - intra-alveolar accumulation of inflammatory cells and fibrin, small vasculitis and necrosis   Rapid diagnostic test - [...]	Legionnaires disease (legionella pneumophila infection):    Classic patient - old smoking man  (or cardiac, renal, hematologic diseases, transplant recipitents)   Classic transmission scenario - water source (e.g. inhalation from air conditioner or aspiration from shower)   Type of pneumonia - necrotizing bronchopneumonia   Pathohistology - intra-alveolar accumulation of inflammatory cells and fibrin, small vasculitis and necrosis   Rapid diagnostic test - rapid latex agglutination test (using sputum)
Pathogenesis of tuberculosis:    1) Target cells (enter by endocytosis) - [...]   2) Describe activation of macrophages 3 weeks after initial infection - antigen presentation to Th1 cells in lungs & lymph nodes (as well as NK cells) --> secretion of IFN-gamma --> macrophages become epithelioid histiocytes capable of eliminating intracellular M. tuberculosis   3) Describe maintenance of the helper T cells - activated macrophages secrete IL-12   4) Describe the results of chronic Th1 activation - formation of granulomas and caseous necrosis (coagulative + liquefactive necrosis)	Pathogenesis of tuberculosis:    1) Target cells (enter by endocytosis) - macrophages (block fusion of the phagosome and lysosome and then replicate)   2) Describe activation of macrophages 3 weeks after initial infection - antigen presentation to Th1 cells in lungs & lymph nodes (as well as NK cells) --> secretion of IFN-gamma --> macrophages become epithelioid histiocytes capable of eliminating intracellular M. tuberculosis   3) Describe maintenance of the helper T cells - activated macrophages secrete IL-12   4) Describe the results of chronic Th1 activation - formation of granulomas and caseous necrosis (coagulative + liquefactive necrosis)
Pathogenesis of tuberculosis:    1) Target cells (enter by endocytosis) - macrophages (block fusion of the phagosome and lysosome and then replicate)   2) Describe activation of macrophages 3 weeks after initial infection - [...]   3) Describe maintenance of the helper T cells - [...]   4) Describe the results of chronic Th1 activation - [...]	Pathogenesis of tuberculosis:    1) Target cells (enter by endocytosis) - macrophages (block fusion of the phagosome and lysosome and then replicate)   2) Describe activation of macrophages 3 weeks after initial infection - antigen presentation to Th1 cells in lungs & lymph nodes (as well as NK cells) --> secretion of IFN-gamma --> macrophages become epithelioid histiocytes capable of eliminating intracellular M. tuberculosis   3) Describe maintenance of the helper T cells - activated macrophages secrete IL-12   4) Describe the results of chronic Th1 activation - formation of granulomas and caseous necrosis (coagulative + liquefactive necrosis)
"Important molecules in asthma:    [...] - secreted by Th2 cells, stimulates IgE production   [...] - secreted by Th2 cells, activates eosinophils    [...] - secreted by mast cells, considered a ""spectator"" in asthma   [...] - secreted by mast cells, considered to be responsible for most of the early phase (increased vascular permeability, increased mucin secretion and prolnged bronchoconstriction).    [...] - secreted by the vagus nerve, considered to play an important role in bronchospasm.    [...] - secreted by respiratory epithelium, important chemokines for eosinophils.    [...] protein and [...] protein - secreted by eosinophils, important cause of damage to respiratory epithelium"	"Important molecules in asthma:    IL-4 - secreted by Th2 cells, stimulates IgE production   IL-5 - secreted by Th2 cells, activates eosinophils    Histamine - secreted by mast cells, considered a ""spectator"" in asthma   Leukotrienes (C4, D4 and E4) - secreted by mast cells, considered to be responsible for most of the early phase (increased vascular permeability, increased mucin secretion and prolnged bronchoconstriction).    Acetylcholine - secreted by the vagus nerve, considered to play an important role in bronchospasm.    Eotaxin - secreted by respiratory epithelium, important chemokines for eosinophils.    Major basic protein and cationic protein - secreted by eosinophils, important cause of damage to respiratory epithelium"
Pathogenesis of interstitial lung diseases:    Key initiating event - [...]   Molecules secreted by [...]:  Oxidants (e.g. reactive oxygen and nitrogen species) and proteases (e.g. elastase) - Injure alveolar epithelial cells.  IL-8 and leukotriene B4  - recruitment and activation of neutrophils that injure alveolar epithelial cells.  FGF, TGF-β and PDGF - recruitment and activation of fibroblasts that initiate fibrosis.	Pathogenesis of interstitial lung diseases:    Key initiating event - activation of alveolar macrophages (important for both fibrosis and granuloma formation)   Molecules secreted by activated macrophages:  Oxidants (e.g. reactive oxygen and nitrogen species) and proteases (e.g. elastase) - Injure alveolar epithelial cells.  IL-8 and leukotriene B4  - recruitment and activation of neutrophils that injure alveolar epithelial cells.  FGF, TGF-β and PDGF - recruitment and activation of fibroblasts that initiate fibrosis.
Pathogenesis of interstitial lung diseases:    Key initiating event - activation of alveolar macrophages (important for both fibrosis and granuloma formation)   Molecules secreted by activated macrophages:  [...] and [...] - Injure alveolar epithelial cells.  [...] and [...]  - recruitment and activation of neutrophils that injure alveolar epithelial cells.  [...], [...] and [...] - recruitment and activation of fibroblasts that initiate fibrosis.	Pathogenesis of interstitial lung diseases:    Key initiating event - activation of alveolar macrophages (important for both fibrosis and granuloma formation)   Molecules secreted by activated macrophages:  Oxidants (e.g. reactive oxygen and nitrogen species) and proteases (e.g. elastase) - Injure alveolar epithelial cells.  IL-8 and leukotriene B4  - recruitment and activation of neutrophils that injure alveolar epithelial cells.  FGF, TGF-β and PDGF - recruitment and activation of fibroblasts that initiate fibrosis.
Pathogenesis of interstitial lung diseases:    Key initiating event - activation of alveolar macrophages (important for both fibrosis and granuloma formation)   Molecules secreted by activated macrophages:  Oxidants (e.g. reactive oxygen and nitrogen species) and proteases (e.g. elastase) - [...]  IL-8 and leukotriene B4  - [...] FGF, TGF-β and PDGF - [...]	Pathogenesis of interstitial lung diseases:    Key initiating event - activation of alveolar macrophages (important for both fibrosis and granuloma formation)   Molecules secreted by activated macrophages:  Oxidants (e.g. reactive oxygen and nitrogen species) and proteases (e.g. elastase) - Injure alveolar epithelial cells.  IL-8 and leukotriene B4  - recruitment and activation of neutrophils that injure alveolar epithelial cells.  FGF, TGF-β and PDGF - recruitment and activation of fibroblasts that initiate fibrosis.
Idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (aka cryptogenic fibrosing alveolitis):    Epidemiology - [...]   Pathogenesis - [...]   Most common cause of death - [...]   Appearance:  Histological (also used as an AKA) - usual interstitial pneumonia; patchy interstitial fibrosis (temporal heterogeneity of fibroblastic foci to more collagenous and less cellular lesions) Gross lungs - honeycomb (alveolar fibrosis leads to dilation of the airways and hyperplastic type II pneumocytes or bronchiolar epithelium)  Gross pleura - coblestone pattern (because of the retraction of scars along the interlobular septa)   Diagnosis - High Resolution CT scan	Idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (aka cryptogenic fibrosing alveolitis):    Epidemiology - mostly males >> 60 yo   Pathogenesis - repeated cycles of alveolitis triggered by an unknown antigen --> release of cytokines --> interstitial fibrosis (NO granulomas)   Most common cause of death - hypoxemia & intimal/medial fibrosis of pulmonary arteries --> pulmonary hypertension --> cor pulmonale   Appearance:  Histological (also used as an AKA) - usual interstitial pneumonia; patchy interstitial fibrosis (temporal heterogeneity of fibroblastic foci to more collagenous and less cellular lesions) Gross lungs - honeycomb (alveolar fibrosis leads to dilation of the airways and hyperplastic type II pneumocytes or bronchiolar epithelium)  Gross pleura - coblestone pattern (because of the retraction of scars along the interlobular septa)   Diagnosis - High Resolution CT scan  Honeycomb fibrosis (A) with pleural cobblestoning (B)
Idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (aka cryptogenic fibrosing alveolitis):    Epidemiology - mostly males >> 60 yo   Pathogenesis - repeated cycles of alveolitis triggered by an unknown antigen --> release of cytokines --> interstitial fibrosis (NO granulomas)   Most common cause of death - hypoxemia & intimal/medial fibrosis of pulmonary arteries --> pulmonary hypertension --> cor pulmonale   Appearance:  Histological (also used as an AKA) - [...] Gross lungs - honeycomb (alveolar fibrosis leads to dilation of the airways and hyperplastic type II pneumocytes or bronchiolar epithelium)  Gross pleura - coblestone pattern (because of the retraction of scars along the interlobular septa)   Diagnosis - High Resolution CT scan	Idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (aka cryptogenic fibrosing alveolitis):    Epidemiology - mostly males >> 60 yo   Pathogenesis - repeated cycles of alveolitis triggered by an unknown antigen --> release of cytokines --> interstitial fibrosis (NO granulomas)   Most common cause of death - hypoxemia & intimal/medial fibrosis of pulmonary arteries --> pulmonary hypertension --> cor pulmonale   Appearance:  Histological (also used as an AKA) - usual interstitial pneumonia; patchy interstitial fibrosis (temporal heterogeneity of fibroblastic foci to more collagenous and less cellular lesions) Gross lungs - honeycomb (alveolar fibrosis leads to dilation of the airways and hyperplastic type II pneumocytes or bronchiolar epithelium)  Gross pleura - coblestone pattern (because of the retraction of scars along the interlobular septa)   Diagnosis - High Resolution CT scan  Honeycomb fibrosis (A) with pleural cobblestoning (B)
[...]:    Epidemiology - mostly males >> 60 yo   Pathogenesis - repeated cycles of alveolitis triggered by an unknown antigen --> release of cytokines --> interstitial fibrosis (NO granulomas)   Most common cause of death - hypoxemia & intimal/medial fibrosis of pulmonary arteries --> pulmonary hypertension --> cor pulmonale   Appearance:  Histological (also used as an AKA) - usual interstitial pneumonia; patchy interstitial fibrosis (temporal heterogeneity of fibroblastic foci to more collagenous and less cellular lesions) Gross lungs - honeycomb (alveolar fibrosis leads to dilation of the airways and hyperplastic type II pneumocytes or bronchiolar epithelium)  Gross pleura - coblestone pattern (because of the retraction of scars along the interlobular septa)   Diagnosis - [...]	Idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (aka cryptogenic fibrosing alveolitis):    Epidemiology - mostly males >> 60 yo   Pathogenesis - repeated cycles of alveolitis triggered by an unknown antigen --> release of cytokines --> interstitial fibrosis (NO granulomas)   Most common cause of death - hypoxemia & intimal/medial fibrosis of pulmonary arteries --> pulmonary hypertension --> cor pulmonale   Appearance:  Histological (also used as an AKA) - usual interstitial pneumonia; patchy interstitial fibrosis (temporal heterogeneity of fibroblastic foci to more collagenous and less cellular lesions) Gross lungs - honeycomb (alveolar fibrosis leads to dilation of the airways and hyperplastic type II pneumocytes or bronchiolar epithelium)  Gross pleura - coblestone pattern (because of the retraction of scars along the interlobular septa)   Diagnosis - High Resolution CT scan  Honeycomb fibrosis (A) with pleural cobblestoning (B)
Idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (aka cryptogenic fibrosing alveolitis):    Epidemiology - mostly males >> 60 yo   Pathogenesis - repeated cycles of alveolitis triggered by an unknown antigen --> release of cytokines --> interstitial fibrosis (NO granulomas)   Most common cause of death - hypoxemia & intimal/medial fibrosis of pulmonary arteries --> pulmonary hypertension --> cor pulmonale   Appearance:  Histological (also used as an AKA) - usual interstitial pneumonia; patchy interstitial fibrosis (temporal heterogeneity of fibroblastic foci to more collagenous and less cellular lesions) Gross lungs - [...]  Gross pleura - [...]   Diagnosis - High Resolution CT scan	Idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (aka cryptogenic fibrosing alveolitis):    Epidemiology - mostly males >> 60 yo   Pathogenesis - repeated cycles of alveolitis triggered by an unknown antigen --> release of cytokines --> interstitial fibrosis (NO granulomas)   Most common cause of death - hypoxemia & intimal/medial fibrosis of pulmonary arteries --> pulmonary hypertension --> cor pulmonale   Appearance:  Histological (also used as an AKA) - usual interstitial pneumonia; patchy interstitial fibrosis (temporal heterogeneity of fibroblastic foci to more collagenous and less cellular lesions) Gross lungs - honeycomb (alveolar fibrosis leads to dilation of the airways and hyperplastic type II pneumocytes or bronchiolar epithelium)  Gross pleura - coblestone pattern (because of the retraction of scars along the interlobular septa)   Diagnosis - High Resolution CT scan  Honeycomb fibrosis (A) with pleural cobblestoning (B)
Extrapulmonary manifestations of Sarcoidosis (6)	1) Erythema nodosum 2) Bells palsy (neurosarcoidosis) 3) Cardiac arrythmias 4) Hypercalcemia + renal stones 5) Lupus pernio 6) Hepatosplenomegaly & uveitis
High risk features of a solitary lung lesion	>35yrs, smoker or speculated Must be excised
Describe 5 differences between elderly and adult sleep	1) Stage 3-4 (slow-wave, delta wave or deep sleep) of non-REM sleep is reduced or non-existant and correspondingly, light sleep increased; 2) increased periodic leg movements; 3) increase in apnoea and respiratory distress indices; 4) earlier bedtime and waketimes; 5) increase in sleep medication usage
What intervention can reduce the number of exacerbations and improve quality of life in COPD? What are the risks?	Azithromycin daily. Increased risk of hearing loss
In what situations can tiotropium bromide be used in asthma?	In patients with poorly controlled asthma on inhaled glucocorticoids & long-acting beta-agonists Tiotropium in Asthma Poorly Controlled with Standard Combination Therapy Huib A.M. Kerstjens, M.D., Michael Engel, M.D., Ronald Dahl, M.D., Pierluigi Paggiaro, M.D., Ekkehard Beck, M.D., Mark Vandewalker, M.D., Ralf Sigmund, Dipl.Math., Wolfgang Seibold, M.D., Petra Moroni-Zentgraf, M.D., and Eric D. Bateman, M.D. N Engl J Med 2012; 367:1198-1207September 27, 2012DOI: 10.1056/NEJMoa1208606
Lights Criteria	Exudate if: Effusion protein / Serum protein ratio >0.5; or Effusion LDH / Serum LDH ratio >0.6; or Effusion LDH greater than 2/3 of the upper limit of serum LDH Exudate - inflammatory process (ie. sarcoidosis, uremia, radiation, malignant) Transudate - heart failure, hypoalbuminema
The obstructive sleep apnoea syndrome (OSAS) is characterised by [...].	The obstructive sleep apnoea syndrome (OSAS) is characterised by repetitive upper airway occlusions leading to hypoventilation, apnoea and sleep fragmentation.
Sarcoidosis Syndromes   [...] - Erythema Nodosum, Bilateral hilar adenopathy & arthritis of knees, ankles and hips   [...] - Fever, parotid enlargement, facial palsy and anterior uveitis	Sarcoidosis Syndromes   Lofgren's Syndrome - Erythema Nodosum, Bilateral hilar adenopathy & arthritis of knees, ankles and hips   Heerfordt-Waldenstrom Syndrome - Fever, parotid enlargement, facial palsy and anterior uveitis
Sarcoidosis Syndromes   Lofgren's Syndrome - [...], [...] & [...]   Heerfordt-Waldenstrom Syndrome - [...], [...], [...] and [...]	Sarcoidosis Syndromes   Lofgren's Syndrome - Erythema Nodosum, Bilateral hilar adenopathy & arthritis of knees, ankles and hips   Heerfordt-Waldenstrom Syndrome - Fever, parotid enlargement, facial palsy and anterior uveitis
ACE levels in sarcoidosis	Used in the follow-up of patients with sarcoidosis
Used in the follow-up of patients with sarcoidosis	ACE levels in sarcoidosis
Indication for Steroid Treatment in Sarcoidosis	Cardiac sardcoid, neurologic sarcoid, or uveitisSymptomatic hepatosplenomegalyHypercalcemia refractory to usual managementRefractory sarcoid
Staging of Sarcoidosis	Stage I - bilateral hilar lymphadenopathy Stage II - bilateral hilar lymphadenopathy + upper lobe infiltrates Stage III - lung infiltrates only Stage IV - lung fibrosis
Most common cardiomyopathy of cardiac sarcoid as seen on echo:	Dilated cardiomyopathy
Lofgren's Syndrome	Arthralgia Bilat hilar lymphadenopathy  Erythema nodosum Fever
Heerfordt-Waldenstrom Syndrome	Bilateral parotid enlargementFacial palsyUveitis
Describe the Wells Score for PE	"Clinical Signs and Symptoms of DVT - 3 points PE Is #1 Diagnosis, or Equally Likely - 3 points Heart Rate > 100 - 1.5 points Immobilization at least 3 days, or Surgery in the Previous 4 weeks - 1.5 points Previous, objectively diagnosed PE or DVT - 1.5 points Hemoptysis - 1 point Malignancy w/ Treatment within 6 mo, or palliative - 1 point"
What type of flow volume loop is this?	Variable Extrathoracic Airway Obstruction  Typically the expiratory part of the F/V-loop is normal: the obstruction is pushed outwards by the force of the expiration. During inspiration the obstruction is sucked into the trachea with partial obstruction and flattening of the inspiratory part of the flow-volume loop. This is seen in cases of vocal cord paralysis, extrathoracic goiter and laryngeal tumors.
What type of flow-volume loop does this represent?	Variable Intrathoracic Airway Obstruction  This is the opposite situation of the extrathoracic obstruction. A tumor located near the intrathoracic part of the trachea is sucked outwards during inspiration with a normal morphology of the inspiratory part of F/V-loop. During expiration the tumor is pushed into the trachea with partial obstruction and flattening of the expiratory part of the F/V loop.
What type of flow volue loop does this represent?	Fixed Airway Obstruction  This can be both intrathoracic as extrathoracic. The flow-volume loop is typically flattened during inspiration and expiration. Examples are tracheal stenosis caused by intubation and a circular tracheal tumor.
Causes of the saw-tooth pattern on a flow-volume loop (7)	Obstructive Sleep ApnoeaNeuromuscular diseases Parkinson disease Laryngeal dyskinesia Pedunculated tumors of the upper airway Tracheobronchomalacia Upper airway burns
Causes of restrictive lung diseases (5)	Mnemonic - PAINT
What part of the flow-volume loop is abnormal in variable extrathoracic occlusion?	The inspiratory loop
What part of the flow volume loop is abnormal in a patient with vocal chord paralysis?	Vocal chord dysfunction produces a variable extrathoracic obstruction flow-volume loop.
Most common cause of isolated increased residual volume in a pulmonary function test?	Asthma Anything that causes air-trapping will cause increased residual volume
What is static and dynamic hyperinflation?	Static Hyperinflation -  Elastic recoil pressure decreases during expiration, reaching zero at the end-expiratory lung volume. Patients with chronic obstructive lung disease (COPD) have decreased elastic recoil pressure compared to healthy patients; therefore, the elastic recoil pressure falls to zero at a larger end-expiratory lung volume. This is referred to as static hyperinflation, which exists at rest.  Dynamic hyperinflation - The airways of patients with COPD typically compress or collapse when the pleural pressure is positive, thereby preventing increased expiratory flow. As a result, exhalation may not be completed prior to the onset of the next breath, causing progressive hyperinflation. This is referred to as dynamic hyperinflation; it occurs during exercise and can exist in the presence or absence of static hyperinflation. Progressive decrease of IC during exercise is highly suggestive of dynamic hyperinflation.  IC - Inspiratory capacity. The inspiratory capacity volumes decrease during exercise as the patient does not get full expiration, thus producing raised end-expiratory lung volume (formal definition of hyperinflation).
How is elastic recoil changed in COPD?  How does it affect lung volumes?	Elastic recall is reduced in COPD. Elastic recoil pressure falls to zero at a larger end-expiratory lung volume (static hyperinflation)
How do beta-agonists improve exertional dyspnoea in COPD?	Reduces static hyperinflation Reduced static hyperinflation allows for better compensation for dynamic hyperinflation. Salmeterol increases the inspiratory capacity during rest and exercise. Therapies commonly used in the management of COPD that have been shown to improve static and/or dynamic hyperinflation include anticholinergic drugs, beta-agonists, theophylline, supplemental oxygen, pulmonary rehabilitation, and lung volume reduction.  Defining Hyperinflation:Hyperinflation is defined as an elevated end-expiratory lung volume (EELV). Decreased inspiratory capacity (IC) is used as a surrogate measure of increased EELV. This is based upon the assumption that total lung capacity (TLC) is constant; therefore, an increase of the EELV must be accompanied by a decrease of the IC since the sum of the two measures is the total lung capacity (ie, EELV + IC = TLC).
How do anticholinergics reduce exertional dyspnoea in patients with COPD?	Reduces dynamic hyperinflation
How does pulmonary rehabilitation improve exercise tolerance?	Reduces dynamic hyperinflation
How does nitric oxide improve oxygenation in severe hypoxemic respiratory failure?	Vasodilation of the ventilated pulmonary vasculature
Side effects of inhaled glucocorticoids	Dysphonia (up to 60%)Cataracts Minimal increased risk of osteoporosis Minimal increased risk of pneumonia and TB Minimal increased risk of adrenal suppression
Hemoptysis and fever 2 days into admission for investigation of dyspnea after a long flight. Admission CT was normal, the CT below was done on day 2	Pulmonary Infarction secondary to pulmonary embolus
Managment of small lung nodules on CT-scans	Nodules ≤4 mm - serial CT scans are not required if the patient is clinically low risk. Nodules 4 to 6 mm - a CT scan should be performed at 12 months Nodules 6 to 8 mm - a CT scan should be performed at 6 to 12 months and at 18 to 24 months Nodules >8 mm - PET Scan
What is the diagnostic test for narcolepsy?	An multiple sleep latency test is indicated for all patients suspected of narcolepsy
