#separator:tab
#html:false
Pharmaco[...] - the fate of drug in body or what the body does with the drug.    Pharmaco[...] - the effect of the drug on the body or what the drug does with the body.    Pharmaco[...] - different genotypes in a population have different receptors, different drug metabolizing enzymes or transporters resulting to different susceptibility to drugs.	Pharmacokinetics - the fate of drug in body or what the body does with the drug.    Pharmacodynamics - the effect of the drug on the body or what the drug does with the body.    Pharmacogenetics - different genotypes in a population have different receptors, different drug metabolizing enzymes or transporters resulting to different susceptibility to drugs.
Can ionized drugs be filtered by glomeruli? [...] Can non-ionized drugs be filtered by glomeruli? [...]   Can ionized drugs be secreted/reabsorbed by renal tubules? [...] Can non-ionized drugs be secreted/reabsorbed by renal tubules? [...]	Can ionized drugs be filtered by glomeruli? YES Can non-ionized drugs be filtered by glomeruli? YES   Can ionized drugs be secreted/reabsorbed by renal tubules? NO (this is why we need to metabolize to water soluble drugs --> trapped in tubules --> excretion) Can non-ionized drugs be secreted/reabsorbed by renal tubules? YES (therefore not properly excreted by kidneys)
	
	
ID the type of antagonism on the left vs. right:	Left - competitive/reversible (decreased potency) Right - non-competitive/irreversible (decreased efficacy)
	
Effects of antagonism on dose response curve:	Non-competitive antagonist - reduced efficacy Competitive antagonist - reduced potency Partial agonist - both reduced efficacy and potency
"SLUDGE syndrome:    S[...] L[...]  U[...]  G[...]  E[...]   Cause - [...]   Antidote (must be given in a timely fashion so avoid ""aging of enzyme"") - Pralidoxime (2-PAM), reactivates acetylcholinesterase, though unable to enter CNS"	"SLUDGE syndrome:    Salivation  Lacrimation  Urination  GI motility (diarrhea)  Emesis   Cause - toxicity of organophosphoric agents (irreversible acetylcholinesterase inhibitors, such as echothiophate)   Antidote (must be given in a timely fashion so avoid ""aging of enzyme"") - Pralidoxime (2-PAM), reactivates acetylcholinesterase, though unable to enter CNS"
"SLUDGE syndrome:    Salivation  Lacrimation  Urination  GI motility (diarrhea)  Emesis   Cause - toxicity of organophosphoric agents (irreversible acetylcholinesterase inhibitors, such as echothiophate)   Antidote (must be given in a timely fashion so avoid ""aging of enzyme"") - [...]"	"SLUDGE syndrome:    Salivation  Lacrimation  Urination  GI motility (diarrhea)  Emesis   Cause - toxicity of organophosphoric agents (irreversible acetylcholinesterase inhibitors, such as echothiophate)   Antidote (must be given in a timely fashion so avoid ""aging of enzyme"") - Pralidoxime (2-PAM), reactivates acetylcholinesterase, though unable to enter CNS"
Which beta blocker has the shortest half-life?	Esmolol
Therapeutic Index	Toxic dose / minimum effective dose (lethal dose in animal studies)
Absolute Bioavailability	
Pharmacodynamic graphs:	
Phenytoin toxicity:    CNS - [...] and [...]   Mouth (≈ 20% incidence) - gingival hyperplasia   Dermatology - hirsutism, coarsening of facial features and acne   Hematology (important to monitor CBC) - megaloblastic anemia (interferes with folate absorption + increases its excretion) and aplastic anemia (immune mediated)   Bone - osteomalacia (esensitizes target tissues to Vit D, increases its metabolism, and interferes with calcium metabolism)   Endocrine (not often seen in therapeutic doses) - inhibition of ADH release + inhibition of insulin release --> hyperglycemia and glycosuria   Pregnancy - fetal hydantoin syndrome (cleft lip, cleft palate and microcephaly (due to epoxide metabolite)	Phenytoin toxicity:    CNS - dose-dependant depression (lethargy,fatigue,drowsiness, nystagmus, ataxia, diplopia) and behavioral changes (secondary to confusion and halucinations)   Mouth (≈ 20% incidence) - gingival hyperplasia   Dermatology - hirsutism, coarsening of facial features and acne   Hematology (important to monitor CBC) - megaloblastic anemia (interferes with folate absorption + increases its excretion) and aplastic anemia (immune mediated)   Bone - osteomalacia (esensitizes target tissues to Vit D, increases its metabolism, and interferes with calcium metabolism)   Endocrine (not often seen in therapeutic doses) - inhibition of ADH release + inhibition of insulin release --> hyperglycemia and glycosuria   Pregnancy - fetal hydantoin syndrome (cleft lip, cleft palate and microcephaly (due to epoxide metabolite)
Phenytoin toxicity:    CNS - dose-dependant depression (lethargy,fatigue,drowsiness, nystagmus, ataxia, diplopia) and behavioral changes (secondary to confusion and halucinations)   Mouth (≈ 20% incidence) - [...]   Dermatology - [...]   Hematology (important to monitor CBC) - megaloblastic anemia (interferes with folate absorption + increases its excretion) and aplastic anemia (immune mediated)   Bone - osteomalacia (esensitizes target tissues to Vit D, increases its metabolism, and interferes with calcium metabolism)   Endocrine (not often seen in therapeutic doses) - inhibition of ADH release + inhibition of insulin release --> hyperglycemia and glycosuria   Pregnancy - fetal hydantoin syndrome (cleft lip, cleft palate and microcephaly (due to epoxide metabolite)	Phenytoin toxicity:    CNS - dose-dependant depression (lethargy,fatigue,drowsiness, nystagmus, ataxia, diplopia) and behavioral changes (secondary to confusion and halucinations)   Mouth (≈ 20% incidence) - gingival hyperplasia   Dermatology - hirsutism, coarsening of facial features and acne   Hematology (important to monitor CBC) - megaloblastic anemia (interferes with folate absorption + increases its excretion) and aplastic anemia (immune mediated)   Bone - osteomalacia (esensitizes target tissues to Vit D, increases its metabolism, and interferes with calcium metabolism)   Endocrine (not often seen in therapeutic doses) - inhibition of ADH release + inhibition of insulin release --> hyperglycemia and glycosuria   Pregnancy - fetal hydantoin syndrome (cleft lip, cleft palate and microcephaly (due to epoxide metabolite)
Phenytoin toxicity:    CNS - dose-dependant depression (lethargy,fatigue,drowsiness, nystagmus, ataxia, diplopia) and behavioral changes (secondary to confusion and halucinations)   Mouth (≈ 20% incidence) - gingival hyperplasia   Dermatology - hirsutism, coarsening of facial features and acne   Hematology (important to monitor CBC) - [...] and [...]   Bone - [...]   Endocrine (not often seen in therapeutic doses) - inhibition of ADH release + inhibition of insulin release --> hyperglycemia and glycosuria   Pregnancy - fetal hydantoin syndrome (cleft lip, cleft palate and microcephaly (due to epoxide metabolite)	Phenytoin toxicity:    CNS - dose-dependant depression (lethargy,fatigue,drowsiness, nystagmus, ataxia, diplopia) and behavioral changes (secondary to confusion and halucinations)   Mouth (≈ 20% incidence) - gingival hyperplasia   Dermatology - hirsutism, coarsening of facial features and acne   Hematology (important to monitor CBC) - megaloblastic anemia (interferes with folate absorption + increases its excretion) and aplastic anemia (immune mediated)   Bone - osteomalacia (esensitizes target tissues to Vit D, increases its metabolism, and interferes with calcium metabolism)   Endocrine (not often seen in therapeutic doses) - inhibition of ADH release + inhibition of insulin release --> hyperglycemia and glycosuria   Pregnancy - fetal hydantoin syndrome (cleft lip, cleft palate and microcephaly (due to epoxide metabolite)
Phenytoin toxicity:    CNS - dose-dependant depression (lethargy,fatigue,drowsiness, nystagmus, ataxia, diplopia) and behavioral changes (secondary to confusion and halucinations)   Mouth (≈ 20% incidence) - gingival hyperplasia   Dermatology - hirsutism, coarsening of facial features and acne   Hematology (important to monitor CBC) - megaloblastic anemia (interferes with folate absorption + increases its excretion) and aplastic anemia (immune mediated)   Bone - osteomalacia (esensitizes target tissues to Vit D, increases its metabolism, and interferes with calcium metabolism)   Endocrine (not often seen in therapeutic doses) - [...]   Pregnancy - fetal hydantoin syndrome (cleft lip, cleft palate and microcephaly (due to epoxide metabolite)	Phenytoin toxicity:    CNS - dose-dependant depression (lethargy,fatigue,drowsiness, nystagmus, ataxia, diplopia) and behavioral changes (secondary to confusion and halucinations)   Mouth (≈ 20% incidence) - gingival hyperplasia   Dermatology - hirsutism, coarsening of facial features and acne   Hematology (important to monitor CBC) - megaloblastic anemia (interferes with folate absorption + increases its excretion) and aplastic anemia (immune mediated)   Bone - osteomalacia (esensitizes target tissues to Vit D, increases its metabolism, and interferes with calcium metabolism)   Endocrine (not often seen in therapeutic doses) - inhibition of ADH release + inhibition of insulin release --> hyperglycemia and glycosuria   Pregnancy - fetal hydantoin syndrome (cleft lip, cleft palate and microcephaly (due to epoxide metabolite)
Phenytoin toxicity:    CNS - dose-dependant depression (lethargy,fatigue,drowsiness, nystagmus, ataxia, diplopia) and behavioral changes (secondary to confusion and halucinations)   Mouth (≈ 20% incidence) - gingival hyperplasia   Dermatology - hirsutism, coarsening of facial features and acne   Hematology (important to monitor CBC) - megaloblastic anemia (interferes with folate absorption + increases its excretion) and aplastic anemia (immune mediated)   Bone - osteomalacia (esensitizes target tissues to Vit D, increases its metabolism, and interferes with calcium metabolism)   Endocrine (not often seen in therapeutic doses) - inhibition of ADH release + inhibition of insulin release --> hyperglycemia and glycosuria   Pregnancy - [...]	Phenytoin toxicity:    CNS - dose-dependant depression (lethargy,fatigue,drowsiness, nystagmus, ataxia, diplopia) and behavioral changes (secondary to confusion and halucinations)   Mouth (≈ 20% incidence) - gingival hyperplasia   Dermatology - hirsutism, coarsening of facial features and acne   Hematology (important to monitor CBC) - megaloblastic anemia (interferes with folate absorption + increases its excretion) and aplastic anemia (immune mediated)   Bone - osteomalacia (esensitizes target tissues to Vit D, increases its metabolism, and interferes with calcium metabolism)   Endocrine (not often seen in therapeutic doses) - inhibition of ADH release + inhibition of insulin release --> hyperglycemia and glycosuria   Pregnancy - fetal hydantoin syndrome (cleft lip, cleft palate and microcephaly (due to epoxide metabolite)
[...] toxicity:    CNS - dose-dependant depression (lethargy,fatigue,drowsiness, nystagmus, ataxia, diplopia) and behavioral changes (secondary to confusion and halucinations)   Mouth (≈ 20% incidence) - gingival hyperplasia   Dermatology - hirsutism, coarsening of facial features and acne   Hematology (important to monitor CBC) - megaloblastic anemia (interferes with folate absorption + increases its excretion) and aplastic anemia (immune mediated)   Bone - osteomalacia (esensitizes target tissues to Vit D, increases its metabolism, and interferes with calcium metabolism)   Endocrine (not often seen in therapeutic doses) - inhibition of ADH release + inhibition of insulin release --> hyperglycemia and glycosuria   Pregnancy - fetal hydantoin syndrome (cleft lip, cleft palate and microcephaly (due to epoxide metabolite)	Phenytoin toxicity:    CNS - dose-dependant depression (lethargy,fatigue,drowsiness, nystagmus, ataxia, diplopia) and behavioral changes (secondary to confusion and halucinations)   Mouth (≈ 20% incidence) - gingival hyperplasia   Dermatology - hirsutism, coarsening of facial features and acne   Hematology (important to monitor CBC) - megaloblastic anemia (interferes with folate absorption + increases its excretion) and aplastic anemia (immune mediated)   Bone - osteomalacia (esensitizes target tissues to Vit D, increases its metabolism, and interferes with calcium metabolism)   Endocrine (not often seen in therapeutic doses) - inhibition of ADH release + inhibition of insulin release --> hyperglycemia and glycosuria   Pregnancy - fetal hydantoin syndrome (cleft lip, cleft palate and microcephaly (due to epoxide metabolite)
[...]: adjunct antiepileptic   Mechanism - blocks L-type Ca2+ channels --> inhibits release of excitatory neurotransmitters such as glutamate, norepinephrine, Substance P and CGRP   Therapeutic uses - partial seizures and neuropathic pain (e.g. post-herpetic neuralgia and diabetic peripheral neuropathy)   Most common adverse effects - dizziness, dryness of mouth, blurred vision, somnolence, ataxia and weight gain	Pregabalin: adjunct antiepileptic   Mechanism - blocks L-type Ca2+ channels --> inhibits release of excitatory neurotransmitters such as glutamate, norepinephrine, Substance P and CGRP   Therapeutic uses - partial seizures and neuropathic pain (e.g. post-herpetic neuralgia and diabetic peripheral neuropathy)   Most common adverse effects - dizziness, dryness of mouth, blurred vision, somnolence, ataxia and weight gain
Pregabalin: adjunct antiepileptic   Mechanism - [...]   Therapeutic uses - partial seizures and neuropathic pain (e.g. post-herpetic neuralgia and diabetic peripheral neuropathy)   Most common adverse effects - dizziness, dryness of mouth, blurred vision, somnolence, ataxia and weight gain	Pregabalin: adjunct antiepileptic   Mechanism - blocks L-type Ca2+ channels --> inhibits release of excitatory neurotransmitters such as glutamate, norepinephrine, Substance P and CGRP   Therapeutic uses - partial seizures and neuropathic pain (e.g. post-herpetic neuralgia and diabetic peripheral neuropathy)   Most common adverse effects - dizziness, dryness of mouth, blurred vision, somnolence, ataxia and weight gain
Pregabalin: adjunct antiepileptic   Mechanism - blocks L-type Ca2+ channels --> inhibits release of excitatory neurotransmitters such as glutamate, norepinephrine, Substance P and CGRP   Therapeutic uses - [...] and [...]   Most common adverse effects - dizziness, dryness of mouth, blurred vision, somnolence, ataxia and weight gain	Pregabalin: adjunct antiepileptic   Mechanism - blocks L-type Ca2+ channels --> inhibits release of excitatory neurotransmitters such as glutamate, norepinephrine, Substance P and CGRP   Therapeutic uses - partial seizures and neuropathic pain (e.g. post-herpetic neuralgia and diabetic peripheral neuropathy)   Most common adverse effects - dizziness, dryness of mouth, blurred vision, somnolence, ataxia and weight gain
[...]: adjunct antiepileptic   Mechanism - broad spectrum anticonvulsant (delays recovery of inactivated Na+, enhances GABA activity and blocks AMPA receptors   Therapeutic uses - partial epilepsy   Adverse effects - ataxia, fatigue, nervousness and memory dysfunction (thinking abnormally, word-finding difficulties), acute myopia, glaucoma, and renal stones.	Topiramate: adjunct antiepileptic   Mechanism - broad spectrum anticonvulsant (delays recovery of inactivated Na+, enhances GABA activity and blocks AMPA receptors   Therapeutic uses - partial epilepsy   Adverse effects - ataxia, fatigue, nervousness and memory dysfunction (thinking abnormally, word-finding difficulties), acute myopia, glaucoma, and renal stones.
Topiramate: adjunct antiepileptic   Mechanism - [...]   Therapeutic uses - partial epilepsy   Adverse effects - ataxia, fatigue, nervousness and memory dysfunction (thinking abnormally, word-finding difficulties), acute myopia, glaucoma, and renal stones.	Topiramate: adjunct antiepileptic   Mechanism - broad spectrum anticonvulsant (delays recovery of inactivated Na+, enhances GABA activity and blocks AMPA receptors   Therapeutic uses - partial epilepsy   Adverse effects - ataxia, fatigue, nervousness and memory dysfunction (thinking abnormally, word-finding difficulties), acute myopia, glaucoma, and renal stones.
Topiramate: adjunct antiepileptic   Mechanism - broad spectrum anticonvulsant (delays recovery of inactivated Na+, enhances GABA activity and blocks AMPA receptors   Therapeutic uses - [...]   Adverse effects - ataxia, fatigue, nervousness and memory dysfunction (thinking abnormally, [...]-finding difficulties), acute [...], glaucoma, and renal stones.	Topiramate: adjunct antiepileptic   Mechanism - broad spectrum anticonvulsant (delays recovery of inactivated Na+, enhances GABA activity and blocks AMPA receptors   Therapeutic uses - partial epilepsy   Adverse effects - ataxia, fatigue, nervousness and memory dysfunction (thinking abnormally, word-finding difficulties), acute myopia, glaucoma, and renal stones.
[...]: adjunct antiepileptic   Mechanism - binds to SV2A (synaptic vesicular protein) --> modifies release of glutamate and GABA   Therapeutic uses - refractory partial epilepsy, myoclonic seizures, and primary generalized tonic-clonic seizures in adults and children.   Adverse effects - somnolence, asthenia, dizziness and ataxia	Levetiracetam: adjunct antiepileptic   Mechanism - binds to SV2A (synaptic vesicular protein) --> modifies release of glutamate and GABA   Therapeutic uses - refractory partial epilepsy, myoclonic seizures, and primary generalized tonic-clonic seizures in adults and children.   Adverse effects - somnolence, asthenia, dizziness and ataxia
Levetiracetam: adjunct antiepileptic   Mechanism - [...]   Therapeutic uses - refractory partial epilepsy, myoclonic seizures, and primary generalized tonic-clonic seizures in adults and children.   Adverse effects - somnolence, asthenia, dizziness and ataxia	Levetiracetam: adjunct antiepileptic   Mechanism - binds to SV2A (synaptic vesicular protein) --> modifies release of glutamate and GABA   Therapeutic uses - refractory partial epilepsy, myoclonic seizures, and primary generalized tonic-clonic seizures in adults and children.   Adverse effects - somnolence, asthenia, dizziness and ataxia
Levetiracetam: adjunct antiepileptic   Mechanism - binds to SV2A (synaptic vesicular protein) --> modifies release of glutamate and GABA   Therapeutic uses - [...]   Adverse effects - somnolence, asthenia, dizziness and ataxia	Levetiracetam: adjunct antiepileptic   Mechanism - binds to SV2A (synaptic vesicular protein) --> modifies release of glutamate and GABA   Therapeutic uses - refractory partial epilepsy, myoclonic seizures, and primary generalized tonic-clonic seizures in adults and children.   Adverse effects - somnolence, asthenia, dizziness and ataxia
[...]:    Mechanism - inhibits dihydroorotate dehydrogenase (DHOD) --> inhibition of pyrimidine synthesis --> inhibition of T cell proliferation   Adverse effects - alopecia, rash, diarrhea, hepatotoxicity   Severe drug interaction - Methotrexate + leflunomide --> severe hepatotoxicity	Leflunomide:    Mechanism - inhibits dihydroorotate dehydrogenase (DHOD) --> inhibition of pyrimidine synthesis --> inhibition of T cell proliferation   Adverse effects - alopecia, rash, diarrhea, hepatotoxicity   Severe drug interaction - Methotrexate + leflunomide --> severe hepatotoxicity
Leflunomide:    Mechanism - inhibits dihydroorotate dehydrogenase (DHOD) --> inhibition of pyrimidine synthesis --> inhibition of T cell proliferation   Adverse effects - alopecia, rash, diarrhea, hepatotoxicity   Severe drug interaction - [...]	Leflunomide:    Mechanism - inhibits dihydroorotate dehydrogenase (DHOD) --> inhibition of pyrimidine synthesis --> inhibition of T cell proliferation   Adverse effects - alopecia, rash, diarrhea, hepatotoxicity   Severe drug interaction - Methotrexate + leflunomide --> severe hepatotoxicity
Leflunomide:    Mechanism - [...]   Adverse effects - alopecia, rash, diarrhea, hepatotoxicity   Severe drug interaction - Methotrexate + leflunomide --> severe hepatotoxicity	Leflunomide:    Mechanism - inhibits dihydroorotate dehydrogenase (DHOD) --> inhibition of pyrimidine synthesis --> inhibition of T cell proliferation   Adverse effects - alopecia, rash, diarrhea, hepatotoxicity   Severe drug interaction - Methotrexate + leflunomide --> severe hepatotoxicity
Leflunomide:    Mechanism - inhibits dihydroorotate dehydrogenase (DHOD) --> inhibition of pyrimidine synthesis --> inhibition of T cell proliferation   Adverse effects - [...]   Severe drug interaction - Methotrexate + leflunomide --> severe hepatotoxicity	Leflunomide:    Mechanism - inhibits dihydroorotate dehydrogenase (DHOD) --> inhibition of pyrimidine synthesis --> inhibition of T cell proliferation   Adverse effects - alopecia, rash, diarrhea, hepatotoxicity   Severe drug interaction - Methotrexate + leflunomide --> severe hepatotoxicity
Which second generation H1 antagonists are used for patients that need to operate machines / vehicles? (2)	Loratadine  Fexofenadine
Centrally acting D2 antagonists for anti-emesis (5)?	
2 factor Xa inhibitors	Rivaroxaban  Apixaban
5 main mechanisms of actions for antibiotics:    Inhibited synthesis of [...]:  7 drugs - penicillins, cephalosporins, carbapenems, monobactam, vancomycin, bacitracin and fosfomycin    Inhibited synthesis of [...]:  3 drugs - amphotericin, ketoconazole and polymyxin   Inhibited synthesis of [...]:  6 drugs - aminoglycosides, chloramphenicol, macrolides, tetracyclines, streptogramins and linezolid   Inhibited synthesis of [...]:  2 drugs - fluoroquinoilones (DNA gyrase inhibition)) and rifampin (RNA polymerase inhibition)   Inhibited synthesis of [...]:  3 drugs - sulfonamides, trimethoprim and pyrimethamine	5 main mechanisms of actions for antibiotics:    Inhibited synthesis of cell wall:  7 drugs - penicillins, cephalosporins, carbapenems, monobactam, vancomycin, bacitracin and fosfomycin    Inhibited synthesis of cell membrane (antifungals):  3 drugs - amphotericin, ketoconazole and polymyxin   Inhibited synthesis of proteins:  6 drugs - aminoglycosides, chloramphenicol, macrolides, tetracyclines, streptogramins and linezolid   Inhibited synthesis of nucleic acids:  2 drugs - fluoroquinoilones (DNA gyrase inhibition)) and rifampin (RNA polymerase inhibition)   Inhibited synthesis of folic acid:  3 drugs - sulfonamides, trimethoprim and pyrimethamine
5 main mechanisms of actions for antibiotics:    Inhibited synthesis of cell wall:  7 drugs - [...], [...], [...], [...], [...], [...] and [...]    Inhibited synthesis of cell membrane (antifungals):  3 drugs - amphotericin, ketoconazole and polymyxin   Inhibited synthesis of proteins:  6 drugs - aminoglycosides, chloramphenicol, macrolides, tetracyclines, streptogramins and linezolid   Inhibited synthesis of nucleic acids:  2 drugs - fluoroquinoilones (DNA gyrase inhibition)) and rifampin (RNA polymerase inhibition)   Inhibited synthesis of folic acid:  3 drugs - sulfonamides, trimethoprim and pyrimethamine	5 main mechanisms of actions for antibiotics:    Inhibited synthesis of cell wall:  7 drugs - penicillins, cephalosporins, carbapenems, monobactam, vancomycin, bacitracin and fosfomycin    Inhibited synthesis of cell membrane (antifungals):  3 drugs - amphotericin, ketoconazole and polymyxin   Inhibited synthesis of proteins:  6 drugs - aminoglycosides, chloramphenicol, macrolides, tetracyclines, streptogramins and linezolid   Inhibited synthesis of nucleic acids:  2 drugs - fluoroquinoilones (DNA gyrase inhibition)) and rifampin (RNA polymerase inhibition)   Inhibited synthesis of folic acid:  3 drugs - sulfonamides, trimethoprim and pyrimethamine
5 main mechanisms of actions for antibiotics:    Inhibited synthesis of cell wall:  7 drugs - penicillins, cephalosporins, carbapenems, monobactam, vancomycin, bacitracin and fosfomycin    Inhibited synthesis of cell membrane (antifungals):  3 drugs - amphotericin, ketoconazole and polymyxin   Inhibited synthesis of proteins:  6 drugs - [...], [...], [...], [...], [...] and [...]   Inhibited synthesis of nucleic acids:  2 drugs - fluoroquinoilones (DNA gyrase inhibition)) and rifampin (RNA polymerase inhibition)   Inhibited synthesis of folic acid:  3 drugs - sulfonamides, trimethoprim and pyrimethamine	5 main mechanisms of actions for antibiotics:    Inhibited synthesis of cell wall:  7 drugs - penicillins, cephalosporins, carbapenems, monobactam, vancomycin, bacitracin and fosfomycin    Inhibited synthesis of cell membrane (antifungals):  3 drugs - amphotericin, ketoconazole and polymyxin   Inhibited synthesis of proteins:  6 drugs - aminoglycosides, chloramphenicol, macrolides, tetracyclines, streptogramins and linezolid   Inhibited synthesis of nucleic acids:  2 drugs - fluoroquinoilones (DNA gyrase inhibition)) and rifampin (RNA polymerase inhibition)   Inhibited synthesis of folic acid:  3 drugs - sulfonamides, trimethoprim and pyrimethamine
5 main mechanisms of actions for antibiotics:    Inhibited synthesis of cell wall:  7 drugs - penicillins, cephalosporins, carbapenems, monobactam, vancomycin, bacitracin and fosfomycin    Inhibited synthesis of cell membrane (antifungals):  3 drugs - amphotericin, ketoconazole and polymyxin   Inhibited synthesis of proteins:  6 drugs - aminoglycosides, chloramphenicol, macrolides, tetracyclines, streptogramins and linezolid   Inhibited synthesis of nucleic acids:  2 drugs - [...] (DNA gyrase inhibition)) and [...] (RNA polymerase inhibition)   Inhibited synthesis of folic acid:  3 drugs - sulfonamides, trimethoprim and pyrimethamine	5 main mechanisms of actions for antibiotics:    Inhibited synthesis of cell wall:  7 drugs - penicillins, cephalosporins, carbapenems, monobactam, vancomycin, bacitracin and fosfomycin    Inhibited synthesis of cell membrane (antifungals):  3 drugs - amphotericin, ketoconazole and polymyxin   Inhibited synthesis of proteins:  6 drugs - aminoglycosides, chloramphenicol, macrolides, tetracyclines, streptogramins and linezolid   Inhibited synthesis of nucleic acids:  2 drugs - fluoroquinoilones (DNA gyrase inhibition)) and rifampin (RNA polymerase inhibition)   Inhibited synthesis of folic acid:  3 drugs - sulfonamides, trimethoprim and pyrimethamine
5 main mechanisms of actions for antibiotics:    Inhibited synthesis of cell wall:  7 drugs - penicillins, cephalosporins, carbapenems, monobactam, vancomycin, bacitracin and fosfomycin    Inhibited synthesis of cell membrane (antifungals):  3 drugs - amphotericin, ketoconazole and polymyxin   Inhibited synthesis of proteins:  6 drugs - aminoglycosides, chloramphenicol, macrolides, tetracyclines, streptogramins and linezolid   Inhibited synthesis of nucleic acids:  2 drugs - fluoroquinoilones (DNA gyrase inhibition)) and rifampin (RNA polymerase inhibition)   Inhibited synthesis of folic acid:  3 drugs - [...], [...] and [...]	5 main mechanisms of actions for antibiotics:    Inhibited synthesis of cell wall:  7 drugs - penicillins, cephalosporins, carbapenems, monobactam, vancomycin, bacitracin and fosfomycin    Inhibited synthesis of cell membrane (antifungals):  3 drugs - amphotericin, ketoconazole and polymyxin   Inhibited synthesis of proteins:  6 drugs - aminoglycosides, chloramphenicol, macrolides, tetracyclines, streptogramins and linezolid   Inhibited synthesis of nucleic acids:  2 drugs - fluoroquinoilones (DNA gyrase inhibition)) and rifampin (RNA polymerase inhibition)   Inhibited synthesis of folic acid:  3 drugs - sulfonamides, trimethoprim and pyrimethamine
5 main mechanisms of actions for antibiotics:    Inhibited synthesis of cell wall:  7 drugs - penicillins, cephalosporins, carbapenems, monobactam, vancomycin, bacitracin and fosfomycin    Inhibited synthesis of cell membrane (antifungals):  3 drugs - [...], [...] and [...]   Inhibited synthesis of proteins:  6 drugs - aminoglycosides, chloramphenicol, macrolides, tetracyclines, streptogramins and linezolid   Inhibited synthesis of nucleic acids:  2 drugs - fluoroquinoilones (DNA gyrase inhibition)) and rifampin (RNA polymerase inhibition)   Inhibited synthesis of folic acid:  3 drugs - sulfonamides, trimethoprim and pyrimethamine	5 main mechanisms of actions for antibiotics:    Inhibited synthesis of cell wall:  7 drugs - penicillins, cephalosporins, carbapenems, monobactam, vancomycin, bacitracin and fosfomycin    Inhibited synthesis of cell membrane (antifungals):  3 drugs - amphotericin, ketoconazole and polymyxin   Inhibited synthesis of proteins:  6 drugs - aminoglycosides, chloramphenicol, macrolides, tetracyclines, streptogramins and linezolid   Inhibited synthesis of nucleic acids:  2 drugs - fluoroquinoilones (DNA gyrase inhibition)) and rifampin (RNA polymerase inhibition)   Inhibited synthesis of folic acid:  3 drugs - sulfonamides, trimethoprim and pyrimethamine
Ethambutol:    Mechanism - [...]   Bactericidal or static? [...]   Therapeutic uses:  In combination with INH, rifampin and pyrazinamide - prevents resistance development in TB Second - MAC   Adverse effects:  Optic neuritis (decreased visual acuity and red-green discrimination) --> relatively contraindicated in young children who will not notice the effect.  Decreased secretion - uric acid --> gout	Ethambutol:    Mechanism - inhibition of arabinosyl transferases (syntheis of arabinogalactan/arabinoglycan) --> inhibits synthesis of mycobacterial cell wall   Bactericidal or static? static   Therapeutic uses:  In combination with INH, rifampin and pyrazinamide - prevents resistance development in TB Second - MAC   Adverse effects:  Optic neuritis (decreased visual acuity and red-green discrimination) --> relatively contraindicated in young children who will not notice the effect.  Decreased secretion - uric acid --> gout
[...]:    Mechanism - inhibition of arabinosyl transferases (syntheis of arabinogalactan/arabinoglycan) --> inhibits synthesis of mycobacterial cell wall   Bactericidal or static? static   Therapeutic uses:  In combination with INH, rifampin and pyrazinamide - prevents resistance development in TB Second - MAC   Adverse effects:  Optic neuritis (decreased visual acuity and red-green discrimination) --> relatively contraindicated in young children who will not notice the effect.  Decreased secretion - uric acid --> gout	Ethambutol:    Mechanism - inhibition of arabinosyl transferases (syntheis of arabinogalactan/arabinoglycan) --> inhibits synthesis of mycobacterial cell wall   Bactericidal or static? static   Therapeutic uses:  In combination with INH, rifampin and pyrazinamide - prevents resistance development in TB Second - MAC   Adverse effects:  Optic neuritis (decreased visual acuity and red-green discrimination) --> relatively contraindicated in young children who will not notice the effect.  Decreased secretion - uric acid --> gout
Ethambutol:    Mechanism - inhibition of arabinosyl transferases (syntheis of arabinogalactan/arabinoglycan) --> inhibits synthesis of mycobacterial cell wall   Bactericidal or static? static   Therapeutic uses:  In combination with INH, rifampin and pyrazinamide - prevents resistance development in TB Second - MAC   Adverse effects:  [...] --> relatively contraindicated in young children who will not notice the effect.  Decreased secretion - [...]	Ethambutol:    Mechanism - inhibition of arabinosyl transferases (syntheis of arabinogalactan/arabinoglycan) --> inhibits synthesis of mycobacterial cell wall   Bactericidal or static? static   Therapeutic uses:  In combination with INH, rifampin and pyrazinamide - prevents resistance development in TB Second - MAC   Adverse effects:  Optic neuritis (decreased visual acuity and red-green discrimination) --> relatively contraindicated in young children who will not notice the effect.  Decreased secretion - uric acid --> gout
Ethambutol:    Mechanism - inhibition of arabinosyl transferases (syntheis of arabinogalactan/arabinoglycan) --> inhibits synthesis of mycobacterial cell wall   Bactericidal or static? static   Therapeutic uses:  In combination with INH, rifampin and pyrazinamide - [...] Second - [...]   Adverse effects:  Optic neuritis (decreased visual acuity and red-green discrimination) --> relatively contraindicated in young children who will not notice the effect.  Decreased secretion - uric acid --> gout	Ethambutol:    Mechanism - inhibition of arabinosyl transferases (syntheis of arabinogalactan/arabinoglycan) --> inhibits synthesis of mycobacterial cell wall   Bactericidal or static? static   Therapeutic uses:  In combination with INH, rifampin and pyrazinamide - prevents resistance development in TB Second - MAC   Adverse effects:  Optic neuritis (decreased visual acuity and red-green discrimination) --> relatively contraindicated in young children who will not notice the effect.  Decreased secretion - uric acid --> gout
[...]:    Mechanism - cytosine analog (triphosphorylated in cells to become active) --> inhibition of HBV DNA polymerase and HIV reverse transcriptase (negligible effect on host DNA polymerase) Resistance - Point mutations: M184V (methionine substituted by valine at position 184) mutation in reverse transcriptase in HIV, M204I/V as the primary mutation in HBV polymerase.   Therapeutic uses - HBV and HIV   Pharmacokinetics and side-effects:  Route of administration - oral Excretion - unchanged in urine Adverse effect after cessation (15% of patients) - flares in aminotransferase levels When used for patients co-infected with HBV and HIV - increased risk of pancreatitis	Lamivudine:    Mechanism - cytosine analog (triphosphorylated in cells to become active) --> inhibition of HBV DNA polymerase and HIV reverse transcriptase (negligible effect on host DNA polymerase) Resistance - Point mutations: M184V (methionine substituted by valine at position 184) mutation in reverse transcriptase in HIV, M204I/V as the primary mutation in HBV polymerase.   Therapeutic uses - HBV and HIV   Pharmacokinetics and side-effects:  Route of administration - oral Excretion - unchanged in urine Adverse effect after cessation (15% of patients) - flares in aminotransferase levels When used for patients co-infected with HBV and HIV - increased risk of pancreatitis  Resistance can occur in up to 50% of individuals
Lamivudine:    Mechanism - [...] Resistance - [...]   Therapeutic uses - HBV and HIV   Pharmacokinetics and side-effects:  Route of administration - oral Excretion - unchanged in urine Adverse effect after cessation (15% of patients) - flares in aminotransferase levels When used for patients co-infected with HBV and HIV - increased risk of pancreatitis	Lamivudine:    Mechanism - cytosine analog (triphosphorylated in cells to become active) --> inhibition of HBV DNA polymerase and HIV reverse transcriptase (negligible effect on host DNA polymerase) Resistance - Point mutations: M184V (methionine substituted by valine at position 184) mutation in reverse transcriptase in HIV, M204I/V as the primary mutation in HBV polymerase.   Therapeutic uses - HBV and HIV   Pharmacokinetics and side-effects:  Route of administration - oral Excretion - unchanged in urine Adverse effect after cessation (15% of patients) - flares in aminotransferase levels When used for patients co-infected with HBV and HIV - increased risk of pancreatitis  Resistance can occur in up to 50% of individuals
Lamivudine:    Mechanism - cytosine analog (triphosphorylated in cells to become active) --> inhibition of HBV DNA polymerase and HIV reverse transcriptase (negligible effect on host DNA polymerase) Resistance - Point mutations: M184V (methionine substituted by valine at position 184) mutation in reverse transcriptase in HIV, M204I/V as the primary mutation in HBV polymerase.   Therapeutic uses - [...] and [...]   Pharmacokinetics and side-effects:  Route of administration - oral Excretion - unchanged in urine Adverse effect after cessation (15% of patients) - flares in aminotransferase levels When used for patients co-infected with HBV and HIV - increased risk of pancreatitis	Lamivudine:    Mechanism - cytosine analog (triphosphorylated in cells to become active) --> inhibition of HBV DNA polymerase and HIV reverse transcriptase (negligible effect on host DNA polymerase) Resistance - Point mutations: M184V (methionine substituted by valine at position 184) mutation in reverse transcriptase in HIV, M204I/V as the primary mutation in HBV polymerase.   Therapeutic uses - HBV and HIV   Pharmacokinetics and side-effects:  Route of administration - oral Excretion - unchanged in urine Adverse effect after cessation (15% of patients) - flares in aminotransferase levels When used for patients co-infected with HBV and HIV - increased risk of pancreatitis  Resistance can occur in up to 50% of individuals
Lamivudine:    Mechanism - cytosine analog (triphosphorylated in cells to become active) --> inhibition of HBV DNA polymerase and HIV reverse transcriptase (negligible effect on host DNA polymerase) Resistance - Point mutations: M184V (methionine substituted by valine at position 184) mutation in reverse transcriptase in HIV, M204I/V as the primary mutation in HBV polymerase.   Therapeutic uses - HBV and HIV   Pharmacokinetics and side-effects:  Route of administration - [...] Excretion - [...] Adverse effect after cessation (15% of patients) - flares in aminotransferase levels When used for patients co-infected with HBV and HIV - increased risk of pancreatitis	Lamivudine:    Mechanism - cytosine analog (triphosphorylated in cells to become active) --> inhibition of HBV DNA polymerase and HIV reverse transcriptase (negligible effect on host DNA polymerase) Resistance - Point mutations: M184V (methionine substituted by valine at position 184) mutation in reverse transcriptase in HIV, M204I/V as the primary mutation in HBV polymerase.   Therapeutic uses - HBV and HIV   Pharmacokinetics and side-effects:  Route of administration - oral Excretion - unchanged in urine Adverse effect after cessation (15% of patients) - flares in aminotransferase levels When used for patients co-infected with HBV and HIV - increased risk of pancreatitis  Resistance can occur in up to 50% of individuals
Lamivudine:    Mechanism - cytosine analog (triphosphorylated in cells to become active) --> inhibition of HBV DNA polymerase and HIV reverse transcriptase (negligible effect on host DNA polymerase) Resistance - Point mutations: M184V (methionine substituted by valine at position 184) mutation in reverse transcriptase in HIV, M204I/V as the primary mutation in HBV polymerase.   Therapeutic uses - HBV and HIV   Pharmacokinetics and side-effects:  Route of administration - oral Excretion - unchanged in urine Adverse effect after cessation (15% of patients) - [...] When used for patients co-infected with HBV and HIV - increased risk of [...]	Lamivudine:    Mechanism - cytosine analog (triphosphorylated in cells to become active) --> inhibition of HBV DNA polymerase and HIV reverse transcriptase (negligible effect on host DNA polymerase) Resistance - Point mutations: M184V (methionine substituted by valine at position 184) mutation in reverse transcriptase in HIV, M204I/V as the primary mutation in HBV polymerase.   Therapeutic uses - HBV and HIV   Pharmacokinetics and side-effects:  Route of administration - oral Excretion - unchanged in urine Adverse effect after cessation (15% of patients) - flares in aminotransferase levels When used for patients co-infected with HBV and HIV - increased risk of pancreatitis  Resistance can occur in up to 50% of individuals
[...]: prototype antiherpetic agent    Mechanism:  Chemical structure - guanine analog (guanosine without sugar) Activation - monophosphorylated by viral thymidine kinase and then twice more by cellular kinases Pharmacological effect - incorporates into viral DNA causing premature DNA termination Resistance mechanism - deficient thymidine kinase and DNA polymerase (cross-resistance with other drugs in family possible)   Therapeutic uses - HSV-1, HSV-2, VZV and EBV    Pharmacokinetics:  Route of administration - oral, IV or topical Crosses BBB? YES Excretion - urine   Side-effects:  Topical administration - irritation Oral administration - diarrhea, nausea, vomiting, crystal-induced nephropathy (like ethylene glycol) Immunocompromised patients - thrombocytopenia	Acyclovir: prototype antiherpetic agent    Mechanism:  Chemical structure - guanine analog (guanosine without sugar) Activation - monophosphorylated by viral thymidine kinase and then twice more by cellular kinases Pharmacological effect - incorporates into viral DNA causing premature DNA termination Resistance mechanism - deficient thymidine kinase and DNA polymerase (cross-resistance with other drugs in family possible)   Therapeutic uses - HSV-1, HSV-2, VZV and EBV    Pharmacokinetics:  Route of administration - oral, IV or topical Crosses BBB? YES Excretion - urine   Side-effects:  Topical administration - irritation Oral administration - diarrhea, nausea, vomiting, crystal-induced nephropathy (like ethylene glycol) Immunocompromised patients - thrombocytopenia
Acyclovir: prototype antiherpetic agent    Mechanism:  Chemical structure - [...] Activation - [...] Pharmacological effect - [...] Resistance mechanism - [...]   Therapeutic uses - HSV-1, HSV-2, VZV and EBV    Pharmacokinetics:  Route of administration - oral, IV or topical Crosses BBB? YES Excretion - urine   Side-effects:  Topical administration - irritation Oral administration - diarrhea, nausea, vomiting, crystal-induced nephropathy (like ethylene glycol) Immunocompromised patients - thrombocytopenia	Acyclovir: prototype antiherpetic agent    Mechanism:  Chemical structure - guanine analog (guanosine without sugar) Activation - monophosphorylated by viral thymidine kinase and then twice more by cellular kinases Pharmacological effect - incorporates into viral DNA causing premature DNA termination Resistance mechanism - deficient thymidine kinase and DNA polymerase (cross-resistance with other drugs in family possible)   Therapeutic uses - HSV-1, HSV-2, VZV and EBV    Pharmacokinetics:  Route of administration - oral, IV or topical Crosses BBB? YES Excretion - urine   Side-effects:  Topical administration - irritation Oral administration - diarrhea, nausea, vomiting, crystal-induced nephropathy (like ethylene glycol) Immunocompromised patients - thrombocytopenia
Acyclovir: prototype antiherpetic agent    Mechanism:  Chemical structure - guanine analog (guanosine without sugar) Activation - monophosphorylated by viral thymidine kinase and then twice more by cellular kinases Pharmacological effect - incorporates into viral DNA causing premature DNA termination Resistance mechanism - deficient thymidine kinase and DNA polymerase (cross-resistance with other drugs in family possible)   Therapeutic uses - [...], [...], [...] and [...]    Pharmacokinetics:  Route of administration - oral, IV or topical Crosses BBB? YES Excretion - urine   Side-effects:  Topical administration - irritation Oral administration - diarrhea, nausea, vomiting, crystal-induced nephropathy (like ethylene glycol) Immunocompromised patients - thrombocytopenia	Acyclovir: prototype antiherpetic agent    Mechanism:  Chemical structure - guanine analog (guanosine without sugar) Activation - monophosphorylated by viral thymidine kinase and then twice more by cellular kinases Pharmacological effect - incorporates into viral DNA causing premature DNA termination Resistance mechanism - deficient thymidine kinase and DNA polymerase (cross-resistance with other drugs in family possible)   Therapeutic uses - HSV-1, HSV-2, VZV and EBV    Pharmacokinetics:  Route of administration - oral, IV or topical Crosses BBB? YES Excretion - urine   Side-effects:  Topical administration - irritation Oral administration - diarrhea, nausea, vomiting, crystal-induced nephropathy (like ethylene glycol) Immunocompromised patients - thrombocytopenia
Acyclovir: prototype antiherpetic agent    Mechanism:  Chemical structure - guanine analog (guanosine without sugar) Activation - monophosphorylated by viral thymidine kinase and then twice more by cellular kinases Pharmacological effect - incorporates into viral DNA causing premature DNA termination Resistance mechanism - deficient thymidine kinase and DNA polymerase (cross-resistance with other drugs in family possible)   Therapeutic uses - HSV-1, HSV-2, VZV and EBV    Pharmacokinetics:  Route of administration - oral, IV or topical Crosses BBB? [...] Excretion - [...]   Side-effects:  Topical administration - [...] Oral administration - [...] Immunocompromised patients - [...]	Acyclovir: prototype antiherpetic agent    Mechanism:  Chemical structure - guanine analog (guanosine without sugar) Activation - monophosphorylated by viral thymidine kinase and then twice more by cellular kinases Pharmacological effect - incorporates into viral DNA causing premature DNA termination Resistance mechanism - deficient thymidine kinase and DNA polymerase (cross-resistance with other drugs in family possible)   Therapeutic uses - HSV-1, HSV-2, VZV and EBV    Pharmacokinetics:  Route of administration - oral, IV or topical Crosses BBB? YES Excretion - urine   Side-effects:  Topical administration - irritation Oral administration - diarrhea, nausea, vomiting, crystal-induced nephropathy (like ethylene glycol) Immunocompromised patients - thrombocytopenia
Which antimalarials have 10-100x more potency than other drugs targetting the asexual erythrocytic stages of P. vivax and P. falciparum?    * But very short half-life so not used in prophylaxis *	Artemisinin and its derivatives
Pharmacokinetics of tamoxifen (prodrug):    Route of administration - oral (activated in liver) Active metabolites (30-100x more affinity for estrogen receptors) -  afimoxifene and endoxifen   Adverse effects:  Increased risk cancer (most important adverse effect) - endometrial (tamoxifen/estrogen receptor complex DOES initiate transcription in endometrial tissue, in contrast to breast tissue where the complex is non-functional) Hematological - [...] Bone - [...]	Pharmacokinetics of tamoxifen (prodrug):    Route of administration - oral (activated in liver) Active metabolites (30-100x more affinity for estrogen receptors) -  afimoxifene and endoxifen   Adverse effects:  Increased risk cancer (most important adverse effect) - endometrial (tamoxifen/estrogen receptor complex DOES initiate transcription in endometrial tissue, in contrast to breast tissue where the complex is non-functional) Hematological - increased risk of blood clotting (like oral contraceptives) Bone - INCREASES bone density (recall low estrogen contributes to osteoporosis in postmenopausal women)
Pharmacokinetics of tamoxifen (prodrug):    Route of administration - [...] Active metabolites (30-100x more affinity for estrogen receptors) -  [...] and [...]   Adverse effects:  Increased risk cancer (most important adverse effect) - endometrial (tamoxifen/estrogen receptor complex DOES initiate transcription in endometrial tissue, in contrast to breast tissue where the complex is non-functional) Hematological - increased risk of blood clotting (like oral contraceptives) Bone - INCREASES bone density (recall low estrogen contributes to osteoporosis in postmenopausal women)	Pharmacokinetics of tamoxifen (prodrug):    Route of administration - oral (activated in liver) Active metabolites (30-100x more affinity for estrogen receptors) -  afimoxifene and endoxifen   Adverse effects:  Increased risk cancer (most important adverse effect) - endometrial (tamoxifen/estrogen receptor complex DOES initiate transcription in endometrial tissue, in contrast to breast tissue where the complex is non-functional) Hematological - increased risk of blood clotting (like oral contraceptives) Bone - INCREASES bone density (recall low estrogen contributes to osteoporosis in postmenopausal women)
Pharmacokinetics of tamoxifen (prodrug):    Route of administration - oral (activated in liver) Active metabolites (30-100x more affinity for estrogen receptors) -  afimoxifene and endoxifen   Adverse effects:  Increased risk cancer (most important adverse effect) - [...] Hematological - increased risk of blood clotting (like oral contraceptives) Bone - INCREASES bone density (recall low estrogen contributes to osteoporosis in postmenopausal women)	Pharmacokinetics of tamoxifen (prodrug):    Route of administration - oral (activated in liver) Active metabolites (30-100x more affinity for estrogen receptors) -  afimoxifene and endoxifen   Adverse effects:  Increased risk cancer (most important adverse effect) - endometrial (tamoxifen/estrogen receptor complex DOES initiate transcription in endometrial tissue, in contrast to breast tissue where the complex is non-functional) Hematological - increased risk of blood clotting (like oral contraceptives) Bone - INCREASES bone density (recall low estrogen contributes to osteoporosis in postmenopausal women)
Rituximab:    Mechanism - [...]   Therapeutic use - [...]   Adverse effects (potentially fatal):  Cardiac - arrhytmias (secondary to hypotension)  Renal - failure due to acute lysis of B cells (requires dialysis)	Rituximab:    Mechanism - targets CD20 on B cells (plays role in activation and cell cycle initiation) --> increases apoptosis by recruiting complement, NK cells and macrophages --> decreased level of all B cells   Therapeutic use - lymphomas and CLL   Adverse effects (potentially fatal):  Cardiac - arrhytmias (secondary to hypotension)  Renal - failure due to acute lysis of B cells (requires dialysis)
[...]:    Mechanism - targets CD20 on B cells (plays role in activation and cell cycle initiation) --> increases apoptosis by recruiting complement, NK cells and macrophages --> decreased level of all B cells   Therapeutic use - lymphomas and CLL   Adverse effects (potentially fatal):  Cardiac - arrhytmias (secondary to hypotension)  Renal - failure due to acute lysis of B cells (requires dialysis)	Rituximab:    Mechanism - targets CD20 on B cells (plays role in activation and cell cycle initiation) --> increases apoptosis by recruiting complement, NK cells and macrophages --> decreased level of all B cells   Therapeutic use - lymphomas and CLL   Adverse effects (potentially fatal):  Cardiac - arrhytmias (secondary to hypotension)  Renal - failure due to acute lysis of B cells (requires dialysis)
Rituximab:    Mechanism - targets CD20 on B cells (plays role in activation and cell cycle initiation) --> increases apoptosis by recruiting complement, NK cells and macrophages --> decreased level of all B cells   Therapeutic use - lymphomas and CLL   Adverse effects (potentially fatal):  Cardiac - [...] Renal - [...]	Rituximab:    Mechanism - targets CD20 on B cells (plays role in activation and cell cycle initiation) --> increases apoptosis by recruiting complement, NK cells and macrophages --> decreased level of all B cells   Therapeutic use - lymphomas and CLL   Adverse effects (potentially fatal):  Cardiac - arrhytmias (secondary to hypotension)  Renal - failure due to acute lysis of B cells (requires dialysis)
Cetuximab   Mechanism - [...] Co-administered drug - [...]   Adverse effects:  Cardio - [...]  Respi - [...]	Cetuximab   Mechanism - targets EGFR  Co-administered drug - irinotecan   Adverse effects:  Cardio - hypotension  Respi - interstitial lung disease
Etoposide:    Mechanism - [...]   Cell cycle specific? [...]   Resistance mechanisms - pumping via P-Gp and mutation of enzyme   Most important side-effect (limits dosage) - myelosuppression	Etoposide:    Mechanism - semisyntheic analog of podophyllotoxin --> inhibition of religation of double strand breaks induced by topoisomerase II via binding to the DNA/enzyme complex   Cell cycle specific? YES (blocks cells in S-G2 phases)   Resistance mechanisms - pumping via P-Gp and mutation of enzyme   Most important side-effect (limits dosage) - myelosuppression
[...]:    Mechanism - semisyntheic analog of podophyllotoxin --> inhibition of religation of double strand breaks induced by topoisomerase II via binding to the DNA/enzyme complex   Cell cycle specific? YES (blocks cells in S-G2 phases)   Resistance mechanisms - pumping via P-Gp and mutation of enzyme   Most important side-effect (limits dosage) - myelosuppression	Etoposide:    Mechanism - semisyntheic analog of podophyllotoxin --> inhibition of religation of double strand breaks induced by topoisomerase II via binding to the DNA/enzyme complex   Cell cycle specific? YES (blocks cells in S-G2 phases)   Resistance mechanisms - pumping via P-Gp and mutation of enzyme   Most important side-effect (limits dosage) - myelosuppression
Etoposide:    Mechanism - semisyntheic analog of podophyllotoxin --> inhibition of religation of double strand breaks induced by topoisomerase II via binding to the DNA/enzyme complex   Cell cycle specific? YES (blocks cells in S-G2 phases)   Resistance mechanisms - pumping via P-Gp and mutation of enzyme   Most important side-effect (limits dosage) - [...]	Etoposide:    Mechanism - semisyntheic analog of podophyllotoxin --> inhibition of religation of double strand breaks induced by topoisomerase II via binding to the DNA/enzyme complex   Cell cycle specific? YES (blocks cells in S-G2 phases)   Resistance mechanisms - pumping via P-Gp and mutation of enzyme   Most important side-effect (limits dosage) - myelosuppression
Adverse effects for which antidiabetic drugs? (note the weight loss)	GLP-1 agonists
Adverse effects for which antidiabetics?	DPP-4 inhibitors
Insulin sensitizers:    Biguanides - [...]    Thiazolidinediones - [...] and [...]	Insulin sensitizers:    Biguanides - metformin    Thiazolidinediones - pioglitazone and rosiglitazone
Mechanism of metformin:    Target cells - [...]   Cell entry - [...] receptors    Activated intracellular kinase - [...]   Results of kinase activation:  1) Translocation of GLUT4 to surface --> decreased gluconeogenesis 2) Decreased lipid synthesis + increased fatty acid oxidation	Mechanism of metformin:    Target cells - hepatocytes   Cell entry - OAT-1 receptors    Activated intracellular kinase - AMPK   Results of kinase activation:  1) Translocation of GLUT4 to surface --> decreased gluconeogenesis 2) Decreased lipid synthesis + increased fatty acid oxidation
Mechanism of metformin:    Target cells - hepatocytes   Cell entry - OAT-1 receptors    Activated intracellular kinase - AMPK   Results of kinase activation:  1) Translocation of [...] to surface --> decreased gluconeogenesis 2) Decreased lipid synthesis + increased fatty acid oxidation	Mechanism of metformin:    Target cells - hepatocytes   Cell entry - OAT-1 receptors    Activated intracellular kinase - AMPK   Results of kinase activation:  1) Translocation of GLUT4 to surface --> decreased gluconeogenesis 2) Decreased lipid synthesis + increased fatty acid oxidation
Mechanism of metformin:    Target cells - hepatocytes   Cell entry - OAT-1 receptors    Activated intracellular kinase - AMPK   Results of kinase activation:  1) Translocation of GLUT4 to surface --> [...]creased gluconeogenesis 2) [...]creased lipid synthesis + [...]creased fatty acid oxidation	Mechanism of metformin:    Target cells - hepatocytes   Cell entry - OAT-1 receptors    Activated intracellular kinase - AMPK   Results of kinase activation:  1) Translocation of GLUT4 to surface --> decreased gluconeogenesis 2) Decreased lipid synthesis + increased fatty acid oxidation
Mechanism of [...]:    Target cells - hepatocytes   Cell entry - OAT-1 receptors    Activated intracellular kinase - AMPK   Results of kinase activation:  1) Translocation of GLUT4 to surface --> decreased gluconeogenesis 2) Decreased lipid synthesis + increased fatty acid oxidation	Mechanism of metformin:    Target cells - hepatocytes   Cell entry - OAT-1 receptors    Activated intracellular kinase - AMPK   Results of kinase activation:  1) Translocation of GLUT4 to surface --> decreased gluconeogenesis 2) Decreased lipid synthesis + increased fatty acid oxidation
Adverse effects for which antidiabetic?	Metformin
Adverse effects for which antidiabetics?	Thiazolidinediones (metformin is much safer)
Adverse effects for which antidiabetics?	α-Glycosidase Inhibitors
Adverse effects for which drugs?	Estrogens
Adverse effects for which drugs?	Combined oral contraceptives
4 contraindications for combined oral contraceptives	
Drugs cleared by hemodialysis	BLAST: Barbiturate, Lithium, Alcohol (inc methanol, ethylene glycol), Salicylates, Theophyllines (charcoal haemoperfusion is preferable)
Drugs not cleared by hemodialysis	DigiTriBloBenz: Digogin, tricyclics,  dextropropoxyphene (Co-proxamol), digoxin, beta-blockers, benzodiazepines
Torsades de Pointe/QT-Prolonging Medication	APACHE QZ - Amiodarone, procainamide, arsenium, cisapride/chlorpromazine, haloperidol, erythromycin, quinidine, ziprasidone
What is the relevance of HLA B5701?	In patients with this HLA, they have a very high risk of hypersensitivity reaction to abacavir
Name the anti-epileptics which are CYP-450 inducers?	phenobarbitol, phenytoin, carbamazepine and topiramate These medications can reduce levels of OCP. Carbamazepine is an auto-inducer, it induces it's own metabolism, thus it may require dose adjustment 1 month post the commencement.
Name the anti-epileptics which are NOT CYP-450 inducers?	sodium valproate, lamotrigine, levetiracetam, gabapentin, benzodiazepines OCP actually induces metabolism of lamotrigine   Valproic acid is not enzyme inducer, but it may cause clinically relevant drug interactions by inhibiting the metabolism of selected substrates, most notably phenobarbital, lamotrigine and other CYP-450 metabolised drugs such as ciclosporin.
Function of rasburicase	Recombinant version of urate oxidase, an enzyme that metabolizes uric acid to allantoin, thus increasing the breakdown of uric acid. Methemoglobinemia may occur in susceptible individuals such as those with G6PDH deficiency due to the production of hydrogen peroxide in the urate oxidase reaction. Testing patients for G6PDH deficiency prior to starting a course of rasburicase has been recommended
Function of allopurinol	Inhibitor of xanthine oxidase  Xanthine oxidase is responsible for the successive oxidation of hypoxanthine and xanthine, resulting in the production of uric acid, the product of human purine metabolism.Note very important interactions with azathioprine.
What must you test for before commencing azathioprine?	TMPT
Function of rifaximin	Reduces load of ammonia/neurotoxin-producing enteric bacteria Rifaximin significantly reduced the risk of an episode of hepatic encephalopathy, as compared with placebo, over a 6-month period (hazard ratio with rifaximin, 0.42; 95% confidence interval [CI], 0.28 to 0.64; P<0.001). A breakthrough episode of hepatic encephalopathy occurred in 22.1% of patients in the rifaximin group, as compared with 45.9% of patients in the placebo group. A total of 13.6% of the patients in the rifaximin group had a hospitalization involving hepatic encephalopathy, as compared with 22.6% of patients in the placebo group, for a hazard ratio of 0.50 (95% CI, 0.29 to 0.87; P=0.01).
What is the mechanism of resistance to penicillinase resistant antibiotics?	Alteration of penicillin-binding protein 2a  Examples include Flucloxacillin, Dicloxacillin and OxacillinThe presence of the mec gene is an absolute requirement for S. aureus to express methicillin resistance. The mec gene is absent from susceptible strains and present in all resistant strains. The structural component of the mec gene, mecA, encodes the penicillin-binding protein 2a (PBP2a) that establishes resistance to methicillin and other semisynthetic penicillinase-resistant beta-lactams.
What is the mechanism of resistance to polymixin E (colistin)?	mutations in the lipopolysaccharide structure in the cell wall
Indicator of severe CNS or CVS toxicity from a tricyclic overdose	Prolonged QRS, >0.12ms
What is the oral:parental morphine conversion?	3:1
Which cardiac medication is contraindicated in Amyloidosis?	Digoxin Digoxin, is contraindicated or should be used with extreme caution, because it is bound extracellularly by amyloid fibrils and may cause hypersensitivity and toxicity. Calcium channel blockers and β-blockers also can worsen left ventricular function because of their negative inotropic effects. Angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors, long-acting nitrate, other vasodilators, and diuretics have been used carefully with varying responses. In the event of atrial fibrillation, ibutalide and amiodarone are effective antiarrhythmic drugs. A pacemaker may be required to treat symptomatic bradycardia and high-grade conduction-system disease.
Multi (MDR) and extensively (XDR) drug resistant TB is resistant to:	MDR - Isoniazid and rifampicin XDR - Isoniazid, rifampicin, fluoroquinolone and second-line drug such as amikacin, capreomycin or kanamycin
[...] has been demonstrated to induce ANA, especially anti-dsDNA antibodies, but does not cause SLE	Infliximab has been demonstrated to induce ANA, especially anti-dsDNA antibodies, but does not cause SLE
Most feared adverse effect of hydroxychloroquine	Retinopathy - blindness
HLA B5801	Allopurinol-induced DRESS syndrome
Allopurinol-induced DRESS syndrome	HLA B5801
Bioavailability Equation	[$]\frac{AUC oral}{AUC IV} \ * \ \frac{IV dose}{Oral dose}[/$]
[$]\frac{AUC oral}{AUC IV} \ * \ \frac{IV dose}{Oral dose}[/$]	Bioavailability Equation
"Below is a Hysteresis curve for ""high"" vs plasma concentration of of cocaine. What are the possible explanations for this curve?"	The curve is an example of a clockwise hysteresis curve, and in this case, represents tolerance to cocaine.
What is the mechanism behind this hysteresis loop?	Sensitization of receptors, or delay to uptake
What is the clearance of a drug that has a half life of 300min volume of distribution of 1200L	4 litres/min  [$]Half \textendash life \times clearance = 0.69 \ \times \ volume \ of \ distribution (Vd)[/$] [$]Clearance =  \frac{0.69 \ \times \ Vd}{Half-life}[/$]
Which of the following drugs has the highest potency?	Drug A
Which of the following has the highest potency?  Which of the following has the highest efficacy?	Drug A is the highest potency Drug B has the highest efficacy
Which drug has the lowest potency?	Drug E
Highly Protein Bound Drugs (>90%)	Warfarin (97%) Phenytoin (90%) Sulphonylureas (>90%) Statins & Gemfibrozil (>90%) NSAIDS Benzodiazepines Cardiovascular Drugs (Amiodarone, digoxin, prazosin, Ca channel blockers)
Drugs Barely Protein Bound (<10%)	I CAMEL   Isoniazid   Codeine CarbemazepineAminoglycosides Metformin Metoprolol Ethanol Lithium
What do you use to treat lithium-induced nephrogenic diabetes insipidus, in particular, the polyuria?	Amiloride The mechanism for this effect is thought to be the ability of amiloride to block lithium uptake into the principal cells of the cortical collecting tubule through epithelial channels (ENaC), allowing the principal cell to regain responsiveness to antidiuretic hormone.    Amiloride inhibits the epithelial sodium channels in collecting tubule cells and therefore should minimize further accumulation of lithium (if lithium therapy is continued). The following data support the use of amiloride in patients with nephrogenic diabetes insipidus who continue to use lithium:    - Amiloride was given to nine patients who continued to take lithium despite the development of nephrogenic diabetes insipidus. After three to four weeks of therapy, mean urine volume fell significantly (from 4.7 to 3.1 liters per day), and urine osmolality increased significantly (from 228 to 331 mosm/kg). This effect persisted for at least six months.  - In a placebo-controlled crossover study, 11 patients with lithium-induced nephrogenic diabetes insipidus were treated with 10 mg/day of amiloride or placebo in random order for six weeks. Amiloride therapy significantly increased the responsiveness of the urine osmolality to exogenous arginine vasopressin (165 percent increase in urine osmolality); no change in responsiveness to arginine vasopressin was seen with placebo.
Which of the following drugs have a variation in pharmacodynamic responses due to genetic polymorphisms? Warfarin Carvedilol Azathioprine Phenytoin Isoniazid	Carvedilol. These polymorphisms of beta-receptors alter the sensitivity of patients to drug therapy, changing the pharmacodynamics of drug response. Moreover, the polymorphisms may change how a patient responds to drug therapy, specifically beta-agonist and antagonist therapies.  Such genotypic analysis can help guide drug selection and dosing.      The most common genetic variants in humans are single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs). Although many SNPs have been discovered in beta-receptors, few are clinically relevant. There are 2 clinically relevant SNPs for beta 1-receptors (Ser49Gly and Arg389Gly), 4 for beta 2-receptors (Cys-19Arg, Arg16Gly, Gln27Glu, Thr164Ile), and 1 for beta 3-receptors (Trp64Arg) Although SNPs may not directly cause disease, they appear to be risk factors for and modifiers of disease.  These SNPs also have the potential to alter response to medications when polymorphisms affect drug targets (e.g., beta-receptors), especially with regards to adrenergic agonists and antagonists.
Relationship between Half-life([$]t^\frac{1}{2}[/$]), volume of distribution and clearance	[$]t^\frac{1}{2}\ = \ \frac{0.693 \ \times \ Vd}{CL}[/$]   [$]CL\ = \ \frac{0.693 \ \times \ Vd}{t^\frac{1}{2}}[/$]
A 50kg person is given Gentamicin 320mg daily IV. The serum concentration measured one hour post the infusion is 20mg/L and the serum concentration 6 hours post the infusion is 5mg/L.Using this data, what is the best estimate of the serum gentamicin concentration clearance in this person?	[$]3.69L/hr[/$] [$]Vd \ = \ \frac{320mg}{20mg} \ =\ 16[/$] [$]Number \ of \ half-lives \ = \ x[/$] [$]x \ = \ 2 \ half-lives[/$] [$]Half-life (t^\frac{1}{2}) = \ \frac{6}{x} \ = \ 3[/$] [$]Clearance = \ \frac{0.693 \ \times \ 16}{t^\frac{1}{2}}[/$]
What characteristics of drugs (molecular weight, volume of distribution and soluability) will make them most likely to be dialysed during hemofiltration.	Drugs with low MW, limited Vd, and that are water-soluble are most likely to be removed by HD and will require extra dosing.  Volume of Distribution: Drugs with large Vd (> 2 L/kg) have lower concentration in plasma, thus less removal and a larger tendency for rebound once HD stops. Drugs with small Vd (< 1 L/kg), the greater the dialyzability.     Molecular weight (MW) of drug is the major determinant Small MW molecules will have much larger clearance through diffusion Large MW molecules will be cleared less as clearance depends on convection; Drugs with larger MW removed by HD take longer to equilibrate from intra-/extracellular compartments and may result in post-dialysis rebound   Protein-Binding: Protein binding of drug – high protein bound = less clearance
"Ketoconazole, itraconazole, fluconazole, the ""-azoles"""	Prevents the synthesis of ergosterol from lanosterol by inhibiting cytochrome P450 dependant 14-alpha-demethylation
Prevents the synthesis of ergosterol from lanosterol by inhibiting cytochrome P450 dependant 14-alpha-demethylation	"Ketoconazole, itraconazole, fluconazole, the ""-azoles"""
Opiod Conversion   Subcutaneous to oral morphine conversion factor - [...] Oral Morphine to oral oxycodone conversion factor - [...]	Opiod Conversion   Subcutaneous to oral morphine conversion factor - 3x Oral Morphine to oral oxycodone conversion factor - 0.66x, or 1.5x oxycodone to morphine
Kelch-13	Mutation associated with Artemisinin Resistance in Malaria
Mutation associated with Artemisinin Resistance in Malaria	Kelch-13
HLA allele B*1502 is a marker for [...] HLA allele B*5801 is a marker for [...] HLA allele B*5701 is a marker for [...]	HLA allele B*1502 is a marker for carbamazepine-induced Stevens–Johnson syndrome and toxic epidermal necrolysis in Han Chinese HLA allele B*5801 is a marker for allopurinol-induced DRESS HLA allele B*5701 is a marker for Abacavir-induced hypersensitivity syndrome
Morphine is metabolized to [...] (55%) and [...] in the liver and it's metabolites are [...] excreted	Morphine is metabolized to morphine-3-glucoronide (55%) and morphine-6-glucoronide in the liver and it's metabolites are renally excreted
Drug Survival	Measures the length of time a patient continues to take a particular drug: it is a well-recognized measure of drug effectiveness, which encompasses factors such as adverse drug reactions and side-effects, poor adherence, loss of efficacy and others
[...] is a marker for carbamazepine-induced Stevens–Johnson syndrome and toxic epidermal necrolysis in Han Chinese [...] is a marker for allopurinol-induced DRESS [...] is a marker for Abacavir-induced hypersensitivity syndrome	HLA allele B*1502 is a marker for carbamazepine-induced Stevens–Johnson syndrome and toxic epidermal necrolysis in Han Chinese HLA allele B*5801 is a marker for allopurinol-induced DRESS HLA allele B*5701 is a marker for Abacavir-induced hypersensitivity syndrome
HLA allele B*5801 is a marker for [...]	HLA allele B*5801 is a marker for allopurinol-induced DRESS
[...] is a marker for allopurinol-induced DRESS	HLA allele B*5801 is a marker for allopurinol-induced DRESS
What is the relationship between warfarin, phenytoin and INR?	Phenytoin and increase OR decrease the INR. A decrease has been attributed to hepatic enzyme induction, and an increase due to displacement of warfarin from protein binding sites.
Rheumatoid Drugs that can be used in pregnancy	SAH Suphasalazine Azathioprine Hydroxychloroquine
Contraindications to TNF-alpha inhibitors	NYHA 3-4 CCF Uncontrolled infection Demyelinating disease
Bioavailability	1-hepatic extraction ratio  If a patient has cirrhosis, the bioavailability is likely to go up by alot.
1-hepatic extraction ratio	Bioavailability  If a patient has cirrhosis, the bioavailability is likely to go up by alot.
Loading Dose	Loading dose = VD x Steady state concentration  (Note Maintenance dose = Clearance x Steady state concentation)
Loading dose = VD x Steady state concentration	Loading Dose  (Note Maintenance dose = Clearance x Steady state concentation)
Maintenance Dose	= Clearance x Steady state concentration  (Note Loading dose = VD x Steady state concentration). Just switch the VD for clearance
= Clearance x Steady state concentration	Maintenance Dose  (Note Loading dose = VD x Steady state concentration). Just switch the VD for clearance
