#separator:tab
#html:false
Abciximab	CD41 (integrin alpha IIb), Glycoprotein IIb/IIIa inhibitor Platelet aggregation inhibitor
Adalimumab	TNF-alpha Rheumatoid arthritis, Crohn's Disease, Plaque Psoriasis, Psoriatic Arthritis, Ankylosing Spondylitis, Juvenile Idiopathic Arthritis, Hemolytic disease of the newborn
Alemtuzumab	CD52 Alemtuzumab is a drug used in the treatment of chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL), cutaneous T-cell lymphoma (CTCL) and T-cell lymphoma under the trade names Campath, MabCampath and Campath-1H, and in the treatment of multiple sclerosis as Lemtrada. It is also used in some conditioning regimens for bone marrow transplantation, kidney transplantation and islet cell transplantation.    It is a monoclonal antibody that binds to CD52, a protein present on the surface of mature lymphocytes, but not on the stem cells from which these lymphocytes are derived. After treatment with alemtuzumab, these CD52-bearing lymphocytes are targeted for destruction.   P53 Mutations Alemtuzumab has been shown to be effective in treating CLL with p53 mutations [del(17p13.1)]. This is in contrast to rituximab, which is not effective in p53 mutation–bearing CLL. Although very effective in clearing the bone marrow of disease, alemtuzumab has shown only limited activity in clearing bulky lymphadenopathy.   Opportunistic Infections Antiviral prophylaxis and prophylactic antibiotics for Pneumocystis jiroveci are recommended for use in patients receiving alemtuzumab during and for 2-4 months after treatment, or until their CD4 count is >250x109 cells. Cytomegalovirus (CMV) polymerase chain reaction (PCR) is also recommended to monitor for CMV reactivation. If CMV is detected, alemtuzumab should be discontinued, and appropriate treatment initiated until CMV becomes undetectable.
Basiliximab	CD25 (alpha chain of IL-2 Receptor) prevention of organ transplant rejection
Belimumab	BAFF Inhibitor - used in SLE Binds to B-cell activating factor (BAFF) which is normally present as a survival factor for B-cells. BAFF upregulates TLR expression, promotes IgG class switching and induces memory B cell differentiation into plasma cells. Inability of BAFF to bind with B-cells cause B-cells to commit suicide. Note serum BAFF levels are increased in autoimmune diseases.
Bevacixumab	VEGF-A Metastatic Cancer, retinopathy of prematurity
Catumaxomab	"EpCAM (tumor) & CD3 (T-cells) Ovarian cancer, malignant ascites, gastric cancer Catumaxomab consists of one ""half"" (one heavy chain and one light chain) of an anti-EpCAM antibody and one half of an anti-CD3 antibody, so that each molecule of catumaxomab can bind both EpCAM and CD3.  Many types of cancer cells carry EpCAM (epithelial cell adhesion molecule) on their surface. By binding to such a cell via one arm, to a T lymphocyte via the other arm and to an antigen-presenting cell like a macrophage, a natural killer cell or a dendritic cell via the heavy chains, an immunological reaction against the cancer cell is triggered (trifunctional antibody). Removing cancer cells from the abdominal cavity reduces the tumour burden which is seen as the cause for ascites in cancer patients.  The usual treatment of malignant ascites is to puncture the peritoneum to let the accumulated fluid drain out. After the puncture, catumaxomab is given as an intraperitoneal infusion. The procedure is repeated four times within about eleven days. It has been shown that puncture free survival can be increased from 11 to 46 days with this treatment"
Certolizumab	TNF-alpha  Certolizumab is indicated for adults with moderate to severely active rheumatoid arthritis. It should be combined with methotrexate in patients who have had an inadequate response to or are intolerant to other treatments with one or more disease-modifying antirheumatic drugs. Certolizumab should only be given on its own if methotrexate is contraindicated or not tolerated. However, the presence of antibodies to certolizumab increases its clearance and appears to correlate with reduced patient responses. Giving methotrexate concomitantly with certolizumab reduces the formation of anti-certolizumab antibodies.
Crizotinib	ALK (Anaplastic Lymphoma Kinase) NSCLC adenocarcinomas Functions as a protein kinase inhibitor by competitive binding within the ATP-binding pocket of target kinases.
Ceritinib	ALK NSCLC adenocarcinomas Non–small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC) harboring the anaplastic lymphoma kinase gene (ALK) rearrangement is sensitive to the ALK inhibitor crizotinib, but resistance invariably develops. Ceritinib (LDK378) is a new ALK inhibitor that has shown greater antitumor potency than crizotinib in preclinical studies.
Cetuximab (Erbitux)	EGFR metastatic colorectal cancer and head and neck SCC
Daclizumab	CD25 (alpha-chain of IL-2 receptor) prevention of organ transplant rejection
Denosumab	RANKL inhibitor osteoporosis, bone metastases
Eculizumab	C5a Paroxysmal nocturnal hemoglobinuria and Atypical HUS. Humanised IgG 2/4 monoclonal which targets the terminal portion of the complement cascade, namely C5a. (Note that PNH occurs due to the absence of membrane bound proteins CD55 - destabilising the C5b-Bb interaction and CD59 - blocks C9 binding to C5-8)
Edrecolomab	EpCAM Colorectal Carcinoma
Girentuximab	Carbonic anhydrase 9 Clear cell renal cell carcinoma The carbonic anhydrases form a family of enzymes that catalyze the reversible reaction CO2 + H2O -> HCO3− + H+, making these enzymes key players in the regulation of intra- and extra-cellular pH, and fluid balance. CA-IX is ubiquitously expressed in ccRCC and not in normal renal tissue.    Because of the specific expression of CA-IX on primary, as well as metastatic, ccRCC tumors, the antigen is considered to be an excellent target for imaging of both localized and advanced disease.
Golimumab	TNF-alpha inhibitor RA, psoriasis, ankylosing spondylitis and ulcerative colitis
Ibritumomab tiuxetan	CD20 Non-hodgkins lymphoma Radioimmunotherapeutic agent The drug uses the monoclonal mouse IgG1 antibody ibritumomab in conjunction with the chelator tiuxetan, to which a radioactive isotope (either yttrium-90 or indium-111) is added.
Infliximab	TNF-alpha Rheumatoid arthritis, ankylosing spondylitis, psoriatic arthritis, psoriasis, Crohn's disease, ulcerative colitis Has been demonstrated that it can induce ANA, especially anti-dsDNA antibodies, but does not cause SLE
Ipilimumab	Blocks CTLA-4 Late-stage melanoma
Mepolizumab	Binds to the alpha chain of the IL-5 receptor complex on eospinophils Eosinophilic asthma and eosinophil-mediated disease such as Churg-Strauss.  Mepolizumab prevents IL-5 from binding to the alpha chain of the IL-5 receptor complex that is expressed on the eosinophil cell, which inhibits IL-5 signalling, inhibiting signalling and overexpression of eosinophils in the peripheral blood and tissues. The Mepolizumab trial, presented in NEJM in July 2015 included patients with asthma and evidence of eosinophilic inflammation despite glucocorticoid therapy, demonstrated The rate of exacerbations was reduced by 47% (95% confidence interval [CI], 28 to 60) among patients receiving intravenous mepolizumab and by 53% (95% CI, 36 to 65) among those receiving subcutaneous mepolizumab, as compared with those receiving placebo (P<0.001 for both comparisons).  A mean increase from baseline in FEV1 was 100 ml greater in patients receiving intravenous/subcut mepolizumab than in those receiving placebo (P=0.02).
Muromonab	CD3 prevention of organ transplant rejection
Natalizumab	Integrin alpha-4 Multiple Sclerosis  Natalizumab, a humanised mouse monoclonal antibody, acts by binding to integrins present on the surface of leucocytes. This interaction stops the leucocytes from migrating into the central nervous system. Natalizumab may also suppress ongoing inflammation by preventing leucocytes from binding to ligands within the extracellular matrix.   Following the repeat intravenous administration of a 300 mg dose of natalizumab every four weeks, the serum concentration reaches a steady state after 24 weeks. The mean half-life of the drug is 11 days but clearance increases with body weight. After discontinuation, natalizumab stays in the blood for about 12 weeks, therefore a washout period may be appropriate before starting other treatments.   A phase III trial enrolled only patients with relapsing-remitting disease who had had a documented relapse in the previous 12 months. They received either a 300 mg dose of natalizumab or placebo every four weeks for up to 116 weeks. Of the 627 patients randomised to receive natalizumab, 72% remained relapse-free after two years compared with 46% of 315 patients randomised to the placebo group.    Increases the risk of progressive multi focal leukoencephalopathy.
Nimotuzumab	EGFR head and neck cancer, nasopharyngeal cancer, glioma It was developed at the Center of molecular immunology (CIM) in Havana, Cuba
Omalizumab	Binds to free human IgE Allergy-related asthma Omalizumab is a recombinant DNA-derived humanized IgG1k monoclonal antibody that specifically binds to free human immunoglobulin E (IgE) in the blood and interstitial fluid and to membrane-bound form of IgE (mIgE) on the surface of mIgE-expressing B lymphocytes. Unlike an ordinary anti-IgE antibody, it does not bind to IgE that is already bound by the high affinity IgE receptor (FcεRI) on the surface of mast cells, basophils, and antigen-presenting dendritic cells.
Ofatumumab	CD20 Chronic Lymphatic Leukemia
Obintuzumab	CD20 Chronic Lymphatic Leukemia
Panitumumab	EGFR   Registered for the treatment of refractory EGFR-expressing metastatic colorectal cancer in patients with non-mutated (wild-type) KRAS. Panitumumab was the first monoclonal antibody to demonstrate the use of KRAS as a predictive biomarker.
Pertuzumab	HER2/neu breast cancer
Ranibizumab	VEGF-A wet macular degeneration
Rituximab	CD20 Leukemia, lymphoma, various autoimmune disorders
Trastuzumab	HER2/neu HER2(+) breast cancer
Ustekinumab	IL-12, IL23 Multiple Sclerosis, psoriasis & psoriatic arthritis Ustekinumab is designed to interfere with the triggering of the body's inflammatory response through the suppression of certain cytokines. Specifically, Ustekinumab blocks interleukin IL-12 and IL-23 which help activate certain T-cells. It binds to the p-40 subunit of both IL-12 and IL-23 so that they subsequently cannot bind to their receptors.
EGFR Receptor Monoclonal Abs (6)	Cetuximab Panitumumab Erlotinib Genefitinib Afatinib Nimotuzumab EGFR blockage inhibits cell proliferation and division. KRAS mutations cause ineffective EGFR blockade.
Describe the Anti-CD20 monoclonal antibodies (6)	Rituximab (1st gen) Ofatumomab (2nd gen) Obintuzumab (2nd gen) Veltuzumab (2nd gen) Ocrelizumab (2nd gen) Ibritumomab tiuxetan - CD20 antibody with either yttrium-90 or indium-111 attached CD20 is expressed on 95% of B-cell lymphomas and normal B-cells, but not on precursor or stem cells.
Tocilizumab	IL-6 Receptor Rheumatoid Arthritis In 2011 the US Food and Drug Administration approved tocilizumab for the treatment of the orphan disease, active systematic Juvenile idiopathic arthritis (SJIA). Also used in castleman's disease and neuromyelitis optica.
Nilotinib	BCR-ABL Tyrosine kinase inhibitor (2nd gen) Chronic Myelogenous Leukemia Ph(+), (resistant to imatinib)
Dasatinib	BCR-ABL Tyrosine kinase inhibitor (2nd gen) Chronic Myelogenous Leukemia Ph(+)
Imatinib	BCR-ABL Tyrosine kinase inhibitor (1st gen) Chronic Myelogenous Leukemia Ph(+), GIST, relapsed or refractory Philadelphia chromosome-positive acute lymphoblastic leukemia (Ph+ ALL)
Nintedanib	Intracellular inhibitor that targets multiple tyrosine kinases Idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis. Nintedanib reduced the decline in FVC by 125mls/year; frequently associated with diarrhea up to 60%, which led to discontinuation of the study medication in less than 5% of patients.
Which monoclonal Abs are contraindicated in heart failure?	Trastuzumab, infliximab (etanercept not so much)
Abatacept	CD80, CD86 Abatacept binds to the CD80 and CD86 molecule, and prevents the second signal. Without the second signal, the T cell can't be activated. Essentially, abatacept inhibits co-stimulation of T-cells. Abatacept (marketed as Orencia) is a fusion protein composed of the Fc region of the immunoglobulin IgG1 fused to the extracellular domain of CTLA-4.   In order for a T cell to be activated and produce an immune response, an antigen presenting cell must present two signals to the T cell. One of those signals is the major histocompatibility complex (MHC), combined with the antigen, and the other signal is the CD80 or CD86 molecule (also known as B7-1 and B7-2). Abatacept binds to the CD80 and CD86 molecule, and prevents the second signal.
Leflunomide	Pyrimidine synthesis inhibitor
Which HAART medication causes lipoatrophy (eg. facial wasting)	Protease inhibitors Nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors especially stavudine and zidovudine
Which HAART medications cause peripheral neuropathy?	Didanosine and Zalcitabine
Which drug must you test for HLA-B*5701 before commencing the drug and why?	Abacavir, high incidence of hypersensitivity syndrome in these populations
Atacicept	TACI-Ig Used in SLE, but normal dose Atacicept did not improve outcomes above that of placebo. Blocks both BAFF and APRIL. Atacicept blocks activation of B cells by the tumor necrosis factor receptor superfamily member 13B (more commonly known as TACI), a transmembrane receptor protein found predominantly on the surface of B cells.  Binding of these TACI ligands induces proliferation, activation, and longevity of B cells and thus their production of autoantibodies. Atacicept is thought to selectively impair mature B cells and plasma cells with less impact on progenitor cells and memory B cells.  TNFRSF13B (TACI) is a transmembrane protein of the TNF receptor superfamily found predominantly on the surface of B cells, which are an important part of the immune system. TACI recognizes three ligands: APRIL, BAFF and CAML.
TNF-alpha inhibitors (5)	Infliximab Etanercept Adalimumab Golimumab Certolizumab
Initiation of TNF-alpha inhibitors (3)	1) Screen for Latent TB using CXR or interferon gamma release assay (quantiferon gold) 2) Screen for Hepatitis B/C (prevention of fulminant hepatitis) 3) Vaccinate for Hepatitis B, Varicella-zoster virus & 23-valent pneumococcal vaccine No requirement to screen for CMV/EBV, cancer (no increased risk), or heart failure (does not worsen heart failure)   Treatment of latent TB is 9 months of isoniazid
Mechanism of resistance to EGFR blockers	Stimulation of EGFR (surface receptor protein) causes cell proliferation and division via the KRAS signalling pathway. If KRAS is mutated (not wild-type), KRAS signals uncontrollably inducing cell proliferation and division, and therefore rendering EGFR blockade useless. Thus, EGFR inhibitors can only be effective when KRAS is wild-type.
Ruxolitinib	JAK-1 & JAK-2 inhibitor used in Myelofibrosis  Until recently, the therapeutic options for patients with myelofibrosis(MF) consisted of allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplant (alloHSCT), the use of cytoreductive agents (ie, hydroxyurea), splenectomy and splenic irradiation for treatment of splenomegaly, and management of anemia with transfusions, erythropoiesis-stimulating agents (ESAs), androgens, and immunomodulatory agents. However, with increased understanding of the pathogenesis of MF resulting from dysregulated Janus kinase (JAK) signaling, new targeted JAK inhibitor therapies, such as ruxolitinib, are now available.   The discovery of the JAK2 V617F mutation and an understanding of dysregulated JAK-STAT signaling in the pathogenesis of MF has led to the development of small-molecule JAK inhibitors. the COntrolled MyeloFibrosis Study With ORal JAK Inhibitor Treatment (COMFORT) trials, which were conducted in patients with primary, post-ET, or post-PV MF with intermediate-2- or high-risk disease as assessed by IPSS and platelet count >100 × 109/L. In COMFORT-I, patients (N = 309) were randomized 1:1 to ruxolitinib or placebo; in COMFORT-II, patients (N = 219) were randomized 2:1 to ruxolitinib or best available therapy (BAT). In both trials, patients received ruxolitinib 15 or 20 mg twice daily based on their baseline platelet count (100–200 or >200 × 109/L, respectively).   The primary endpoint of both trials was achieved with a proportion of patients in the ruxolitinib arms exhibiting a ≥35% reduction in spleen volume as measured by magnetic resonance imaging at 24 weeks in COMFORT-I (41.9% ruxolitinib versus [vs] 0.7% placebo; P < 0.0001) and at 48 weeks in COMFORT-II (28.5% ruxolitinib vs 0% BAT; P < 0.0001). The spleen responses in both studies were observed regardless of JAK2 V617F mutation status. Furthermore, spleen responses were durable, with 67.0% and 79.9% of responding patients in COMFORT-I and -II, respectively, maintaining their response for ≥48 weeks. With longer follow-up in both COMFORT-I and -II (median 102 and 112 weeks, respectively), the median duration of response to ruxolitinib had not been reached Responses to ruxolitinib are typically observed within the first 3–6 months after therapy initiation.
Antidepressant associated with priapism	Trazodone
Dabrafenib	BRAF inhibitor BRAF inhibitor and is approved for use in patients with melanoma whose tumors express the BRAF V600E gene mutation.
Trametinib	MEK1 & MEK2 Kinase Inhibitor  Kinase inhibitor which reversibly blocks MEK1 and MEK2 in melanoma cells with the BRAF mutationIt therefore acts at a different point in the pathway from the BRAF inhibitors – vemurafenib and dabrafenib.
Vemurafenib	BRAF inhibitor Vemurafenib offers another alternative for patients whose melanoma carries a specific mutation called BRAF V600-E. This is found in 40–60% of melanomas. The abnormal BRAF protein kinase stimulates cell proliferation and cell survival. Vemurafenib blocks BRAF and slows tumour growth. Between 18% and 26% of patients in the trials developed cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma or keratoacanthoma.
BRAF and BRAF-like inhibitors	Dabrafenib Vemurafenib Tramatenib (MEK1/MEK2) All used in melanoma
Anti-epileptics which cause weight loss (3)	Topiramate, zonisamide & felbamate Zonisamide is a sulphonamide
Azathioprine -- Glutathione --> 6-MP (active metabolite) -- TPMT --> [...]  Azathioprine -- Glutathione --> 6-MP (active metabolite) -- HPRT --> TIMP -- TPMT -->  [...] Azathioprine -- Glutathione --> 6-MP (active metabolite) -- HPRT --> TIMP -- IMPD/GMPS -->  [...] Azathioprine -- Glutathione --> 6-MP (active metabolite) -- Xanthine Oxidase --> [...]   Reduction in TPMT or the associated use of allopurinol is associated with shunting of the metabolic pathway towards TGPT metabolites causing bone marrow suppression.   Target enzyme of 6-MeMPN is amidophosphoribosyltransferase, which inhibits purine synthesis   1/300 are homozygous for TMPT mutation	Azathioprine -- Glutathione --> 6-MP (active metabolite) -- TPMT --> 6-MMP (inactive)  Azathioprine -- Glutathione --> 6-MP (active metabolite) -- HPRT --> TIMP -- TPMT -->  6-MeMPN (active metabolite - inhibition of de novo purine synthesis) Azathioprine -- Glutathione --> 6-MP (active metabolite) -- HPRT --> TIMP -- IMPD/GMPS -->  6-TGN/6-TG (active metabolite - incorporated into RNA, and can cause bone marrow suppression if TPMT is absent or reduced) Azathioprine -- Glutathione --> 6-MP (active metabolite) -- Xanthine Oxidase --> Thiouric acid   Reduction in TPMT or the associated use of allopurinol is associated with shunting of the metabolic pathway towards TGPT metabolites causing bone marrow suppression.   Target enzyme of 6-MeMPN is amidophosphoribosyltransferase, which inhibits purine synthesis   1/300 are homozygous for TMPT mutation  Thioguanosine triphosphate (TGTP) is incorporated into RNA, compromising its functionality. Reduction in TPMT or the associated use of allopurinol is associated with shunting of the metabolic pathway towards TGPT metabolites causing bone marrow suppression.
Azathioprine -- Glutathione --> 6-MP (active metabolite) -- TPMT --> 6-MMP (inactive)  Azathioprine -- Glutathione --> 6-MP (active metabolite) -- HPRT --> TIMP -- TPMT -->  6-MeMPN (active metabolite - inhibition of de novo purine synthesis) Azathioprine -- Glutathione --> 6-MP (active metabolite) -- HPRT --> TIMP -- IMPD/GMPS -->  6-TGN/6-TG (active metabolite - incorporated into RNA, and can cause bone marrow suppression if TPMT is absent or reduced) Azathioprine -- Glutathione --> 6-MP (active metabolite) -- Xanthine Oxidase --> Thiouric acid   Reduction in TPMT or the associated use of allopurinol is associated with shunting of the metabolic pathway towards TGPT metabolites causing bone marrow suppression.   Target enzyme of 6-MeMPN is [...], which inhibits purine synthesis   1/300 are [...] for TMPT mutation	Azathioprine -- Glutathione --> 6-MP (active metabolite) -- TPMT --> 6-MMP (inactive)  Azathioprine -- Glutathione --> 6-MP (active metabolite) -- HPRT --> TIMP -- TPMT -->  6-MeMPN (active metabolite - inhibition of de novo purine synthesis) Azathioprine -- Glutathione --> 6-MP (active metabolite) -- HPRT --> TIMP -- IMPD/GMPS -->  6-TGN/6-TG (active metabolite - incorporated into RNA, and can cause bone marrow suppression if TPMT is absent or reduced) Azathioprine -- Glutathione --> 6-MP (active metabolite) -- Xanthine Oxidase --> Thiouric acid   Reduction in TPMT or the associated use of allopurinol is associated with shunting of the metabolic pathway towards TGPT metabolites causing bone marrow suppression.   Target enzyme of 6-MeMPN is amidophosphoribosyltransferase, which inhibits purine synthesis   1/300 are homozygous for TMPT mutation  Thioguanosine triphosphate (TGTP) is incorporated into RNA, compromising its functionality. Reduction in TPMT or the associated use of allopurinol is associated with shunting of the metabolic pathway towards TGPT metabolites causing bone marrow suppression.
Azathioprine -- [...] --> [...] -- TPMT --> 6-MMP (inactive)  Azathioprine -- [...] --> [...] -- HPRT --> TIMP -- TPMT -->  6-MeMPN (active metabolite - inhibition of de novo purine synthesis) Azathioprine -- [...] --> [...] -- HPRT --> TIMP -- IMPD/GMPS -->  6-TGN/6-TG (active metabolite - incorporated into RNA, and can cause bone marrow suppression if TPMT is absent or reduced) Azathioprine -- [...] --> [...] -- Xanthine Oxidase --> Thiouric acid   Reduction in TPMT or the associated use of allopurinol is associated with shunting of the metabolic pathway towards TGPT metabolites causing bone marrow suppression.   Target enzyme of 6-MeMPN is amidophosphoribosyltransferase, which inhibits purine synthesis   1/300 are homozygous for TMPT mutation	Azathioprine -- Glutathione --> 6-MP (active metabolite) -- TPMT --> 6-MMP (inactive)  Azathioprine -- Glutathione --> 6-MP (active metabolite) -- HPRT --> TIMP -- TPMT -->  6-MeMPN (active metabolite - inhibition of de novo purine synthesis) Azathioprine -- Glutathione --> 6-MP (active metabolite) -- HPRT --> TIMP -- IMPD/GMPS -->  6-TGN/6-TG (active metabolite - incorporated into RNA, and can cause bone marrow suppression if TPMT is absent or reduced) Azathioprine -- Glutathione --> 6-MP (active metabolite) -- Xanthine Oxidase --> Thiouric acid   Reduction in TPMT or the associated use of allopurinol is associated with shunting of the metabolic pathway towards TGPT metabolites causing bone marrow suppression.   Target enzyme of 6-MeMPN is amidophosphoribosyltransferase, which inhibits purine synthesis   1/300 are homozygous for TMPT mutation  Thioguanosine triphosphate (TGTP) is incorporated into RNA, compromising its functionality. Reduction in TPMT or the associated use of allopurinol is associated with shunting of the metabolic pathway towards TGPT metabolites causing bone marrow suppression.
Azathioprine -- Glutathione --> 6-MP (active metabolite) -- TPMT --> 6-MMP (inactive)  Azathioprine -- Glutathione --> 6-MP (active metabolite) -- HPRT --> TIMP -- TPMT -->  6-MeMPN (active metabolite - inhibition of de novo purine synthesis) Azathioprine -- Glutathione --> 6-MP (active metabolite) -- HPRT --> TIMP -- IMPD/GMPS -->  6-TGN/6-TG (active metabolite - incorporated into RNA, and can cause bone marrow suppression if TPMT is absent or reduced) Azathioprine -- Glutathione --> 6-MP (active metabolite) -- Xanthine Oxidase --> Thiouric acid   Reduction in [...] is associated with shunting of the metabolic pathway towards TGPT metabolites causing bone marrow suppression.   Target enzyme of 6-MeMPN is amidophosphoribosyltransferase, which inhibits purine synthesis   1/300 are homozygous for TMPT mutation	Azathioprine -- Glutathione --> 6-MP (active metabolite) -- TPMT --> 6-MMP (inactive)  Azathioprine -- Glutathione --> 6-MP (active metabolite) -- HPRT --> TIMP -- TPMT -->  6-MeMPN (active metabolite - inhibition of de novo purine synthesis) Azathioprine -- Glutathione --> 6-MP (active metabolite) -- HPRT --> TIMP -- IMPD/GMPS -->  6-TGN/6-TG (active metabolite - incorporated into RNA, and can cause bone marrow suppression if TPMT is absent or reduced) Azathioprine -- Glutathione --> 6-MP (active metabolite) -- Xanthine Oxidase --> Thiouric acid   Reduction in TPMT or the associated use of allopurinol is associated with shunting of the metabolic pathway towards TGPT metabolites causing bone marrow suppression.   Target enzyme of 6-MeMPN is amidophosphoribosyltransferase, which inhibits purine synthesis   1/300 are homozygous for TMPT mutation  Thioguanosine triphosphate (TGTP) is incorporated into RNA, compromising its functionality. Reduction in TPMT or the associated use of allopurinol is associated with shunting of the metabolic pathway towards TGPT metabolites causing bone marrow suppression.
Azathioprine -- Glutathione --> 6-MP (active metabolite) -- TPMT --> 6-MMP (inactive)  Azathioprine -- Glutathione --> 6-MP (active metabolite) -- HPRT --> TIMP -- TPMT -->  6-MeMPN (active metabolite - inhibition of de novo purine synthesis) Azathioprine -- Glutathione --> 6-MP (active metabolite) -- HPRT --> TIMP -- IMPD/GMPS -->  6-TGN/6-TG (active metabolite - incorporated into RNA, and can cause bone marrow suppression if TPMT is absent or reduced) Azathioprine -- Glutathione --> 6-MP (active metabolite) -- Xanthine Oxidase --> Thiouric acid   Reduction in TPMT or the associated use of allopurinol is associated with shunting of the metabolic pathway towards [...] causing [...].   Target enzyme of 6-MeMPN is amidophosphoribosyltransferase, which inhibits purine synthesis   1/300 are homozygous for TMPT mutation	Azathioprine -- Glutathione --> 6-MP (active metabolite) -- TPMT --> 6-MMP (inactive)  Azathioprine -- Glutathione --> 6-MP (active metabolite) -- HPRT --> TIMP -- TPMT -->  6-MeMPN (active metabolite - inhibition of de novo purine synthesis) Azathioprine -- Glutathione --> 6-MP (active metabolite) -- HPRT --> TIMP -- IMPD/GMPS -->  6-TGN/6-TG (active metabolite - incorporated into RNA, and can cause bone marrow suppression if TPMT is absent or reduced) Azathioprine -- Glutathione --> 6-MP (active metabolite) -- Xanthine Oxidase --> Thiouric acid   Reduction in TPMT or the associated use of allopurinol is associated with shunting of the metabolic pathway towards TGPT metabolites causing bone marrow suppression.   Target enzyme of 6-MeMPN is amidophosphoribosyltransferase, which inhibits purine synthesis   1/300 are homozygous for TMPT mutation  Thioguanosine triphosphate (TGTP) is incorporated into RNA, compromising its functionality. Reduction in TPMT or the associated use of allopurinol is associated with shunting of the metabolic pathway towards TGPT metabolites causing bone marrow suppression.
Azathioprine -- Glutathione --> 6-MP (active metabolite) -- TPMT --> 6-MMP (inactive)  Azathioprine -- Glutathione --> 6-MP (active metabolite) -- HPRT --> TIMP -- [...] -->  6-MeMPN (active metabolite - inhibition of de novo purine synthesis) Azathioprine -- Glutathione --> 6-MP (active metabolite) -- HPRT --> TIMP -- [...] -->  6-TGN/6-TG (active metabolite - incorporated into RNA, and can cause bone marrow suppression if TPMT is absent or reduced) Azathioprine -- Glutathione --> 6-MP (active metabolite) -- Xanthine Oxidase --> Thiouric acid   Reduction in TPMT or the associated use of allopurinol is associated with shunting of the metabolic pathway towards TGPT metabolites causing bone marrow suppression.   Target enzyme of 6-MeMPN is amidophosphoribosyltransferase, which inhibits purine synthesis   1/300 are homozygous for TMPT mutation	Azathioprine -- Glutathione --> 6-MP (active metabolite) -- TPMT --> 6-MMP (inactive)  Azathioprine -- Glutathione --> 6-MP (active metabolite) -- HPRT --> TIMP -- TPMT -->  6-MeMPN (active metabolite - inhibition of de novo purine synthesis) Azathioprine -- Glutathione --> 6-MP (active metabolite) -- HPRT --> TIMP -- IMPD/GMPS -->  6-TGN/6-TG (active metabolite - incorporated into RNA, and can cause bone marrow suppression if TPMT is absent or reduced) Azathioprine -- Glutathione --> 6-MP (active metabolite) -- Xanthine Oxidase --> Thiouric acid   Reduction in TPMT or the associated use of allopurinol is associated with shunting of the metabolic pathway towards TGPT metabolites causing bone marrow suppression.   Target enzyme of 6-MeMPN is amidophosphoribosyltransferase, which inhibits purine synthesis   1/300 are homozygous for TMPT mutation  Thioguanosine triphosphate (TGTP) is incorporated into RNA, compromising its functionality. Reduction in TPMT or the associated use of allopurinol is associated with shunting of the metabolic pathway towards TGPT metabolites causing bone marrow suppression.
Idacurizumab	Reversal of dabigatrin
Reversal of dabigatrin	Idacurizumab
Idacurizumab	Reversal of Dabigatrin
Reversal of Dabigatrin	Idacurizumab
Idarucizumab	Reversal agent for Dabigatran (within minutes)
Reversal agent for Dabigatran (within minutes)	Idarucizumab
Canakinumab	IL-1 (Arthritis)
IL-1 (Arthritis)	Canakinumab
incatibant	bradykinin b2 antagonist, hereditary angioedema
bradykinin b2 antagonist, hereditary angioedema	incatibant
Fingolimod	Sphingosine-1-phosphate receptor modulator, which sequesters lymphocytes in lymph nodes, preventing them from contributing to an autoimmune reaction. (Can cause lymphopenia due to sequestering)
Sphingosine-1-phosphate receptor modulator, which sequesters lymphocytes in lymph nodes, preventing them from contributing to an autoimmune reaction. (Can cause lymphopenia due to sequestering)	Fingolimod
Glaterimer Acetate	Medication that mimics myelin peptides thus functions as a decoy for the immune system.  It is a random polymer of four amino acids found in myelin basic protein, namely glutamic acid, lysine, alanine, and tyrosine, and may work as a decoy for the immune system.
Medication that mimics myelin peptides thus functions as a decoy for the immune system.  It is a random polymer of four amino acids found in myelin basic protein, namely glutamic acid, lysine, alanine, and tyrosine, and may work as a decoy for the immune system.	Glaterimer Acetate
CADASIL	Notch-3 Mutation
Notch-3 Mutation	CADASIL
Mitotane	Adrenocortical Carcinoma - adrenal cortical suppressive and antineoplastic agent
Adrenocortical Carcinoma - adrenal cortical suppressive and antineoplastic agent	Mitotane
When is alemtuzumab indicated in CLL	In CLL with P53 mutations
Vedolizumab	Monoclonal Ab to integrin α₄β₇, used in Ulcerative colitis & Crohn's disease It reduces inflammation by inhibiting the adhesion of T lymphocytes to gastrointestinal tissues.
Monoclonal Ab to integrin α₄β₇, used in Ulcerative colitis & Crohn's disease It reduces inflammation by inhibiting the adhesion of T lymphocytes to gastrointestinal tissues.	Vedolizumab
FK506-binding protein 12	Sirolimus and Tacrolimus engage with this protein to inhibit the target of rapamycin
Sirolimus and Tacrolimus engage with this protein to inhibit the target of rapamycin	FK506-binding protein 12
Caspofungin	non-competitively inhibits the synthesis of fungal cell wall beta(1-3)-D-Glucan
non-competitively inhibits the synthesis of fungal cell wall beta(1-3)-D-Glucan	Caspofungin
Amphotericin B	This drug forms artificial pores by binding to ergosterol in fungal membranes, thereby disrupting membrane permeability
This drug forms artificial pores by binding to ergosterol in fungal membranes, thereby disrupting membrane permeability	Amphotericin B
Griseofulvin	Only active against dermatophytes by depositing newly formed keratin and disrupting microtubule structure
Only active against dermatophytes by depositing newly formed keratin and disrupting microtubule structure	Griseofulvin
Azithromycin	Anti-microbial with a 60 hour half-life, binds to the bacterial 50S ribosomal subunit to inhibit translocation thereby inhibiting protein synthesis, does not affect cytochrome P450 pathways, and is safe in pregnancy
Anti-microbial with a 60 hour half-life, binds to the bacterial 50S ribosomal subunit to inhibit translocation thereby inhibiting protein synthesis, does not affect cytochrome P450 pathways, and is safe in pregnancy	Azithromycin
Romiplostin & Eltrombopag	Fusion protein analogs of thrombopoetin used in chronic immune thrombocytopenia
Fusion protein analogs of thrombopoetin used in chronic immune thrombocytopenia	Romiplostin & Eltrombopag
Mongerson	SMAD7 downregulation Mongersen has previously been shown to downregulate SMAD7 and prevent and alleviate Crohn’s disease–like colitis in mice. Studies conducted with mucosal cells from humans with Crohn’s disease showed that inhibition of SMAD7 production by mongersen restored TGF-β1 signaling, thereby suppressing inflammatory cytokine production
Sodium Zirconium Cyclosilicate	Novel selective cation exchanger in hyperkalemia    Sodium zirconium cyclosilicate (ZS-9) is a highly selective cation exchanger that entraps potassium in the intestinal tract in exchange for sodium and hydrogen In a phase 2 study, ZS-9, as compared with placebo, was associated with significant reductions in serum potassium levels within the first 48 hours of treatment in patients with stage 3 chronic kidney disease (estimated glomerular filtration rate [eGFR], 30 to 60 ml per minute per 1.73 m2 of body-surface area) and serum potassium levels of 5 to 6 mmol per liter.
Novel selective cation exchanger in hyperkalemia	Sodium Zirconium Cyclosilicate    Sodium zirconium cyclosilicate (ZS-9) is a highly selective cation exchanger that entraps potassium in the intestinal tract in exchange for sodium and hydrogen In a phase 2 study, ZS-9, as compared with placebo, was associated with significant reductions in serum potassium levels within the first 48 hours of treatment in patients with stage 3 chronic kidney disease (estimated glomerular filtration rate [eGFR], 30 to 60 ml per minute per 1.73 m2 of body-surface area) and serum potassium levels of 5 to 6 mmol per liter.
Icatibant	Selective B2 bradykinin receptor antagonist for ACE-inhibitor-induced angioedema
Selective B2 bradykinin receptor antagonist for ACE-inhibitor-induced angioedema	Icatibant
Ibrutinib	Bruton's Tyrosine Kinase Inhibitor Used in: 1) CLL 2) Lymphoma (small and mantle cell) 3) Waldenstrom's Macroglobulinemia (MYD88 and CXCR4 mutations)    In Australia: 1) First line for chronic lymphocytic leukaemia in patients with the 17p deletion 2) Second line for chronic lymphocytic leukaemia and small lymphocytic lymphoma (after at least one previous therapy) 3) Second line for mantle cell lymphoma (after at least one previous therapy).
Bruton's Tyrosine Kinase Inhibitor Used in: 1) CLL 2) Lymphoma (small and mantle cell) 3) Waldenstrom's Macroglobulinemia (MYD88 and CXCR4 mutations)	Ibrutinib    In Australia: 1) First line for chronic lymphocytic leukaemia in patients with the 17p deletion 2) Second line for chronic lymphocytic leukaemia and small lymphocytic lymphoma (after at least one previous therapy) 3) Second line for mantle cell lymphoma (after at least one previous therapy).
Secukinumab	IL-17a antagonist used for Plaque Psoriasis    Type 17 helper T (Th17) cells, which regulates innate and adaptive immunity. The proinflammatory cytokine interleukin-17A is the primary effector of Th17 cells, but it is also produced by other cell types in psoriatic lesions, including γδ T cells, neutrophils, and possibly mast cells. Interleukin-17A stimulates keratinocytes to secrete chemokines and other proinflammatory mediators that recruit additional inflammatory cells, including neutrophils, Th17 cells, dendritic cells, and innate lymphoid cells.  Interleukin-17A thus potentially acts as a master cytokine in the pathogenesis of psoriasis.
IL-17a antagonist used for Plaque Psoriasis	Secukinumab    Type 17 helper T (Th17) cells, which regulates innate and adaptive immunity. The proinflammatory cytokine interleukin-17A is the primary effector of Th17 cells, but it is also produced by other cell types in psoriatic lesions, including γδ T cells, neutrophils, and possibly mast cells. Interleukin-17A stimulates keratinocytes to secrete chemokines and other proinflammatory mediators that recruit additional inflammatory cells, including neutrophils, Th17 cells, dendritic cells, and innate lymphoid cells.  Interleukin-17A thus potentially acts as a master cytokine in the pathogenesis of psoriasis.
Vedolizumab	α4-β7 integrin inhibitor. Selectively blocks gut lymphocyte trafficking without interfering with trafficking to the central nervous system.   The α4-β7 integrin, a cell surface glycoprotein variably expressed on circulating B and T lymphocytes, interacts with mucosal addressin-cell adhesion molecule-1 (MAdCAM-1) on intestinal vasculature. Vedolizumab, a humanized monoclonal antibody that specifically recognizes the α4-β7 heterodimer, selectively blocks gut lymphocyte trafficking without interfering with trafficking to the central nervous system.
α4-β7 integrin inhibitor. Selectively blocks gut lymphocyte trafficking without interfering with trafficking to the central nervous system.	Vedolizumab   The α4-β7 integrin, a cell surface glycoprotein variably expressed on circulating B and T lymphocytes, interacts with mucosal addressin-cell adhesion molecule-1 (MAdCAM-1) on intestinal vasculature. Vedolizumab, a humanized monoclonal antibody that specifically recognizes the α4-β7 heterodimer, selectively blocks gut lymphocyte trafficking without interfering with trafficking to the central nervous system.
Evolocumab	"Inhibits proprotein convertase subtilisin/kexin type 9 (PCSK9) resulting in lower LDL.   PCSK9 is a protein that targets LDL receptors for degradation and thereby reduces the liver's ability to remove LDL-C, or ""bad"" cholesterol, from the blood."
Inhibits proprotein convertase subtilisin/kexin type 9 (PCSK9) resulting in lower LDL.	"Evolocumab   PCSK9 is a protein that targets LDL receptors for degradation and thereby reduces the liver's ability to remove LDL-C, or ""bad"" cholesterol, from the blood."
Perfenidone	Antifibrotic therapy, reduces disease progression, as reflected by lung function, exercise tolerance, and progression-free survival, in patients with idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis.   A number of cell-based studies have shown that pirfenidone reduces fibroblast proliferation, inhibits TGF-β stimulated collagen production and reduces the production of fibrogenic mediators such as TGF-β.
Antifibrotic therapy, reduces disease progression, as reflected by lung function, exercise tolerance, and progression-free survival, in patients with idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis.	Perfenidone   A number of cell-based studies have shown that pirfenidone reduces fibroblast proliferation, inhibits TGF-β stimulated collagen production and reduces the production of fibrogenic mediators such as TGF-β.
Cholestyramine	Bile acid sequestrant, interferes with bile acid resorption
Bile acid sequestrant, interferes with bile acid resorption	Cholestyramine
Thiazolidinediones	Peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor (PPAR-gamma) activator
Peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor (PPAR-gamma) activator	Thiazolidinediones
GLP-1 analog + 2 examples	Glucose-dependant stimulation of insulin secretionExenatide, liraglutide   GLP-1 will only induce the release of insulin when glucose levels are high, thus this medication does not cause hypoglycemiaDPP-4 is an enzyme that breaks down GLP-1
Glucose-dependant stimulation of insulin secretionExenatide, liraglutide	GLP-1 analog + 2 examples   GLP-1 will only induce the release of insulin when glucose levels are high, thus this medication does not cause hypoglycemiaDPP-4 is an enzyme that breaks down GLP-1
DPP-4 Inhibitors & 2 examples	Inhibits the function of DPP-4, thus inhibits breakdown of GLP-1 Sitagliptin, lenagliptin   DPP-4 is an enzyme that breaks down GLP-1  GLP-1 will only induce the release of insulin when glucose levels are high, thus this medication does not cause hypoglycemia.
Inhibits the function of DPP-4, thus inhibits breakdown of GLP-1 Sitagliptin, lenagliptin	DPP-4 Inhibitors & 2 examples   DPP-4 is an enzyme that breaks down GLP-1  GLP-1 will only induce the release of insulin when glucose levels are high, thus this medication does not cause hypoglycemia.
LCZ696	Neprilysin Inhibitor (Sacubitril) + Valsartan    Neprilysin, a neutral endopeptidase, degrades several endogenous vasoactive peptides, including natriuretic peptides, bradykinin, and adrenomedullin. Inhibition of neprilysin increases the levels of these substances, countering the neurohormonal overactivation that contributes to vasoconstriction, sodium retention, and maladaptive remodeling.
Neprilysin Inhibitor (Sacubitril) + Valsartan	LCZ696    Neprilysin, a neutral endopeptidase, degrades several endogenous vasoactive peptides, including natriuretic peptides, bradykinin, and adrenomedullin. Inhibition of neprilysin increases the levels of these substances, countering the neurohormonal overactivation that contributes to vasoconstriction, sodium retention, and maladaptive remodeling.
Sacubitril	Neprolysin inhibitor  Used in heart failure. LCZ696 is sacubitril + valsartan in a single pill
Neprolysin inhibitor	Sacubitril  Used in heart failure. LCZ696 is sacubitril + valsartan in a single pill
Alirocumab	"Proprotein convertase subtilisin–kexin type 9 inactivators (PCSK-9) inactivators  Results in decreased LDL-receptor degradation, increased recirculation of the receptor to the surface of hepatocytes, and consequent lowering of LDL cholesterol levels in the bloodstream. PCSK9 is a protein that targets LDL receptors for degradation and thereby reduces the liver's ability to remove LDL-C, or ""bad"" cholesterol, from the blood."
Proprotein convertase subtilisin–kexin type 9 inactivators (PCSK-9) inactivators	"Alirocumab  Results in decreased LDL-receptor degradation, increased recirculation of the receptor to the surface of hepatocytes, and consequent lowering of LDL cholesterol levels in the bloodstream. PCSK9 is a protein that targets LDL receptors for degradation and thereby reduces the liver's ability to remove LDL-C, or ""bad"" cholesterol, from the blood."
Enzyme which converts the prodrug clopidogrel to its active metabolite (and metabolises some anti-depressants and proton pump inhibitors)	CYP2C19
CYP2C19	Enzyme which converts the prodrug clopidogrel to its active metabolite (and metabolises some anti-depressants and proton pump inhibitors)
Prasugrel	Inhibits platelet activation and aggregation by irreversibly blocking P2Y12 adenosine diphosphate receptors. More potent than clopidogrel and is not a prodrug.
Inhibits platelet activation and aggregation by irreversibly blocking P2Y12 adenosine diphosphate receptors. More potent than clopidogrel and is not a prodrug.	Prasugrel
Carbimazole	Inhibits thyroid peroxidase
Inhibits thyroid peroxidase	Carbimazole
Perampanel	Anti-epileptic that works by modulation of AMPA Glutamate
Anti-epileptic that works by modulation of AMPA Glutamate	Perampanel
Function of Senna	Increase gastric fluid secretion and bowel motility
Function of coloxyl (docusate)	Docusate inhibits fluid absorption or stimulates secretion in the jejunum.
Teriparatide	"PTH analogue Typically, PTH causes an elevated calcium through bone breakdown. However, intermittent dosing causes increased activation of osteoblasts causing bone ""growth"", which is the mechanism of action of once-daily dosing of teriparatide"
Tranexamic acid	Inhibits plasmin from degrading fibrin. Tranexamic acid is a synthetic derivative of the amino acid lysine that exerts its antifibrinolytic effect through the reversible blockade of lysine binding sites on plasminogen molecules.Used to stop hemorrhage
Mechanism of action of Ezetimibe	Selective cholesterol-absorption inhibitor Ezetimibe selectively inhibits the uptake of cholesterol from the intestinal lumen at the level of the enterocyte in the intestinal brush border while having no effect on other sterols or lipid-soluble vitamins. Ezetimibe 10 mg daily produces a consistent reduction in low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) by approximately 15 to 20% when used as monotherapy or in combination with 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A inhibitors (statins) or fenofibrate and a 4 to 9% increase in high-density lipoprotein cholesterol.   While ezetimibe reduces LDL cholesterol, it has not been shown to have an impact on outcomes such as risk of death or major cardiovascular event like heart attack or stroke. Its effectiveness in reducing atherosclerosis in clinical trials has been inconsistent. The question of whether ezetimibe could make a difference in major outcomes was examined in the IMPROVE-IT trial, which compared treatment with ezetimibe vs. placebo on top of a background regimen of statin therapy in people who have had recent episodes of acute coronary syndrome over a six-year period. The trial results showing that ezetimibe treatment lowered the risk of experiencing a vascular event by 2%.
Pembrolizumab	PD-1 receptor inhibitor Programmed cell death 1 receptor inhibitor Melanoma resistant to ipilimumab NSCLC that has metastasised Similar to Nivolumab
Pazopanib	Multiple Tyrosine Kinase Inhibitors Used in metastatic renal cancerIt inhibits tyrosine kinase by binding to several targets including vascular endothelial growth factor receptor (VEGFR)-1, -2, -3, platelet derived factor receptor-I, and the cytokine receptor c-kit. Note that pazopanib is a metabolized for CYP3A4
Immunosuppressive medications and their mechanisms of action   CyclosporineTacrolimusSirolimus/Everolimus Binds toCyclophyillin[...]FK506 binding protein 12InhibitsCalcineurin[...]mTorMetabolisedCYP3A4 & P glycoprotein[...]CYP3A4	Immunosuppressive medications and their mechanisms of action   CyclosporineTacrolimusSirolimus/Everolimus Binds toCyclophyillinFK506 binding protein 12FK506 binding protein 12InhibitsCalcineurinCalcineurinmTorMetabolisedCYP3A4 & P glycoproteinCYP3A4CYP3A4     Upon entering T cells, both cyclosporine and tacrolimus bind with high affinity to proteins known as immunophilins. Cyclosporine binds mainly to cyclophilin A (encoded by the PPIA gene), the predominant cyclophilin found within T cells, and tacrolimus binds to FK-binding proteins, in particular FKBP12 (encoded by the FKBP1A gene). Both immunophilins interact with calcineurin and cause inhibition of calcineurin.
Immunosuppressive medications and their mechanisms of action   CyclosporineTacrolimusSirolimus/Everolimus Binds toCyclophyillinFK506 binding protein 12[...]InhibitsCalcineurinCalcineurin[...]MetabolisedCYP3A4 & P glycoproteinCYP3A4[...]	Immunosuppressive medications and their mechanisms of action   CyclosporineTacrolimusSirolimus/Everolimus Binds toCyclophyillinFK506 binding protein 12FK506 binding protein 12InhibitsCalcineurinCalcineurinmTorMetabolisedCYP3A4 & P glycoproteinCYP3A4CYP3A4     Upon entering T cells, both cyclosporine and tacrolimus bind with high affinity to proteins known as immunophilins. Cyclosporine binds mainly to cyclophilin A (encoded by the PPIA gene), the predominant cyclophilin found within T cells, and tacrolimus binds to FK-binding proteins, in particular FKBP12 (encoded by the FKBP1A gene). Both immunophilins interact with calcineurin and cause inhibition of calcineurin.
Mechanism of action of linezolid	Protein synthesis inhibitor (inhibits initiation) The oxazolidinones are protein synthesis inhibitors: they stop the growth and reproduction of bacteria by disrupting translation of messenger RNA (mRNA) into proteins in the ribosome. Although its mechanism of action is not fully understood, linezolid works on the first step of protein synthesis, initiation, unlike most other protein synthesis inhibitors, which inhibit elongation.
Mechanism of action of Tigecycline	Protein synthesis inhibitor. 30S ribosomal subunit inhibitor Glyclycycline The agents in this class are being developed to overcome bacterial mechanisms of tetracycline resistance such as ribosomal protection and efflux pumps. This drug binds to the 30S ribosomal subunit of bacteria and blocks entry of amino-acyl transfer RNA into the A site of the ribosome. Tigecycline binds 5 times more efficiently to this ribosomal site compared with the tetracycline.
Function of aromatase inhibitors	Inhibits aromatase's conversion of testosterone and other androgens to estrogen.
Conivaptan / Tolvaptan	Vasopressor Antagonists induce nephrogenic diabetes insipidus V2R antagonists have become a mainstay of treatment for euvolemic (i.e., SIADH, postoperative hyponatremia) and hypervolemic hyponatremia (i.e., CHF and cirrhosis)
Mechanism of action of bisphosphonates	Inhibits FPPS   Tightly adheres to bone surfaces and inhibits the enzyme farnesyl pyrophosphate synthase which is required for formation of cytoskeleton in osteoclasts, thereby inhibiting bone resorption.
Romosozumab	Sclerostin Inhibitor   By inhibiting the Wnt and bone morphogenetic protein signaling pathways, sclerostin impedes osteoblast proliferation and function, thereby decreasing bone formation. The fact that SOST expression is limited to skeletal tissue makes the inhibition of sclerostin a particularly attractive target, because it would affect skeletal health but limit the risk of off-target effects.
Sclerostin Inhibitor	Romosozumab   By inhibiting the Wnt and bone morphogenetic protein signaling pathways, sclerostin impedes osteoblast proliferation and function, thereby decreasing bone formation. The fact that SOST expression is limited to skeletal tissue makes the inhibition of sclerostin a particularly attractive target, because it would affect skeletal health but limit the risk of off-target effects.
Mycophenolate mofetil	Mycophenolate mofetil is a prodrug of mycophenolic acid (MPA), an inhibitor of inosine monophosphate dehydrogenase. This is the rate-limiting enzyme in de novo synthesis of guanosine nucleotides. T- and B-lymphocytes are more dependent on this pathway than other cell types are.
