#separator:tab
#html:false
Islet Cell Antibodies	T1DM, present for only first 6 months. Can help differentiated T1DM and T2DM for first 6 months of illness. Due to high prevalence of these antibodies in normal population, a positive test makes T2DM aka maturity-onset diabetes of young (MODY) unlikely.
Glutamic Acid Decarboxylase Antibodies	T1DM, always present, thus is useful in differentiating T1DM from T2DM in a patient with long-standing DM (10% of T2DM are actually T1DM)
Insulin autoantibodies	T1DM
Describe features of MEN I	1) Pancreas: Gastrin producing tumor causing zollinger-ellison syndrome (persistent peptic ulcer disease), Insulinoma, 2) Parathyroid Hyperplasia, 3) Pituitary Gland Tumor (3 P's) All MEN syndromes are autosomal dominant. Gastrinomas are diagnosed via secretin testing. Associated with the menin protein
Describe features of MEN IIa	1) Medullary Thyroid Carcinoma, 2) Pheochromocytoma, 3) Parathyroid Hyperplasia (1 M, 2 P's)
Describe features of MEN IIb	1) Medullary Thyroid Carcinoma, 2) Pheochromocytoma, 3) Mucocutaneous neuroma, Marfanoid habitus (3m's 1 P)
Diabetic medications which do not cause hypo's (5)	Exenatide, acarbose, metformin, sitagliptin, pioglitazone
Diabetic medications which cause hypo's (4)	Glimipiride, gliclazide, insulin, repaglinide
Describe the 3 types of nocturnal glucose/insulin phenomena	Somogyi Effect: early morning hypoglycemia resulting in morning compensatory hyperglycemia (decreased nocturnal insulin dose). Waning phenomenon: early morning and morning hyperglycemia (increase and delay nighttime insulin and/or add insulin glargine for long-acting) Dawn effect: early morning normo-glycemia and morning hyperglycemia (add insulin glargine at night or delay nighttime insulin)
What is the primary mechanism by which parathyroid hormone increases calcium in the blood?	Increased bone resorption PTH increases blood calcium levels by stimulating osteoclasts to break down bone and release calcium. PTH also increases gastrointestinal calcium absorption by activating vitamin D, and promotes calcium conservation (reabsorption) by the kidneys.
Repeated episodes of fatigue & lethargy and hypoglycemia with normal c-peptide levels points to:   a) Sulphonylurea use b) insulinoma c) Exogenous insulin d) T1DM	c) Exogenous insulin Insulinomas and exogenous sulphonylureas would present with raised c-peptide levels.
Management of an adrenal incidentaloma	Observe with CT scan in 6months if <4cm, if >4cm or functioning, must be resected.  Surveillance is recommended for non-functioning adenomas, typically less than 4 cm, and masses not deemed resectable at initial diagnosis. Recently, authors have challenged this notion citing that the risk of developing adrenal hyper-secretion or malignancy is equal to the risk incurred by imaging-associated radiation exposure. At 6cm this is an indication for surgical resection.       Screening for functional adenomas must be performed: Pheochromocytomas: 24-hour urinary metanephrine, vanillyl mandelic acid or catecholamine measurement Cushings: 24-hour urinary cortisol or dexamethasone suppression test Hypoaldosteronism: Serum potassium/sodium   The diagnosis of pheochromocytoma is established by the demonstration of elevated 24-h urinary excretion of free catecholamines (norepinephrine and epinephrine) or catecholamine metabolites [vanillylmandelic acid (VMA) and total metanephrines]. The measurement of plasma catecholamines is not recommended, because this method has poor sensitivity and specificity often leading to false-positive results. Plasma free metanephrines, normetanephrine and metanephrine, have been reported to be more sensitive than other tests, including measurement of catecholamines in 24-h urine for diagnosis of sporadic pheochromocytoma. Although urine metanephrines and VMA have a higher specificity, receiver operating characteristic curves revealed a better test performance for plasma metanephrines than other biochemical tests. Special attention should be given to acetaminophen use, which interferes with assays of plasma free metanephrines and is a source of false-positive testing.
What percent of patients will have diabetic retinopathy when nephropathy is already present?	T1DM - 90% T2DM - 60%
Optimal diagnostic test for pheochromocytoma	Plasma free metanephrines Chest/Abdo CT scan if positive Nuclear medicine scan 123I-MIBG, 85% of pheochromocytomas will show uptake Traditionally, urinary vanillyl mandelic acid (VMA) was used to diagnose phaeochromocytoma. However, it has a low sensitivity (60-70%). The sensitivity of catecholamines test is limited by their episodic release from the tumour cells. The reported sensitivity ranges from 76-82%t for plasma catecholamines (PCAT) and 71-86% for urinary catecholamines (UCAT). The specificity ranges from 81-100% for PCAT and 88-99 per cent for UCAT.   Metanephrines are ortho-methylated metabolites of catecholamines. These are secreted continuously from the tumour cells, independent of the intermittent release of catecholamines. Studies have proved that plasma free metanephrines have a sensitivity of 96-100% and specificity of 85-100% superior to that of uMN which has a sensitivity of 93-99.6% and specificity of 71-77%.
Most common biochemical association with obesity	raised c-peptide levels
Cause of Autonomous Thyroid Nodules	Activating mutation of the TSH receptor
Genetic cause of papillary thyroid cancer	RET & NTRK-1 Mutations
Genetic cause of Anaplastic thyroid carcinoma	p53 mutation
Glucocortoids (effects on bone)	Decreases function of Osteoblasts Increases function of Osteoclasts Decreased Calcium Absorption Increased Urinary Calcium Excretion   Drug that lowers indices of bone formation: serum propeptide of type I N-terminal procollagen (PINP), propeptide of type I C-terminal procollagen (PICP), osteocalcin, and bone-specific alkaline phosphatase (BSALP)
Decreases function of Osteoblasts Increases function of Osteoclasts Decreased Calcium Absorption Increased Urinary Calcium Excretion	Glucocortoids (effects on bone)   Drug that lowers indices of bone formation: serum propeptide of type I N-terminal procollagen (PINP), propeptide of type I C-terminal procollagen (PICP), osteocalcin, and bone-specific alkaline phosphatase (BSALP)
Deterioration in glycemic control in T2DM is primarily due to?	Decreased insulin secretion
Most important biochemical features of primary polydipsia	1) Plasma and urine osmolalities (not urine osmolality alone)2) Hyponatremia  Hyponatremia is a marker of excess body water to serum sodium contentUrine osmolality is important, but the kidneys cannot dilute urine to <100mOsm/kg
Describe the hierarchy of responses to hypoglycemia	Decreased insulin secretion (approximately 4.5 mmol/L)Increased glucose counterregulatory hormones (approximately 3.6-3.8 mmol/L)GlucagonEpinephrine - increase hepatic glycogenolysis and gluconeogenesisGrowth hormone & CortisolSymptoms of hypoglycemia (approximately 3.0 mmol/L). Cognitive dysfunction (approximately 2.6 mmol/L)
Inhibitors of Growth hormone secretion	Concentrations of GH and IGF-1 (negative feedback on the pituitary and hypothalamus)HyperglycemiaGlucocorticoidsDihydrotestosterone Hyper GGGT - Glucose/Growth/Glucocorticoids and Testosterone
Function of GLP-1	Increase insulin secretion (only when BSLs are high)
First line treatment in a patient with a macroprolactinoma causing bitemporal hemianopsia	Bromocriptine Not transphenoidal surgery, as 85% of macroprolactinomas will shrink in size.
Chronic Lymphocytic Thyroiditis is also known as:	Hashimoto's Thyroiditis
Screening test for primary aldosteronism	Upright plasma aldosterone/renin ratio
Confirmatory test for primary hyperaldosteronism (Conn's Syndrome)	1) Discontinue interfering medications 2) 5 days of high salt and high potassium diet 3) 24 hour urinary aldosterone
Next step in the diagnosis of a male with gynaecomastia and mildly elevated estrogen, normal testosterone, and normal sized testicles on clinical examination?	Ultrasound Evaluate for estrogen-secreting neoplasms or their precursors (eg, Leydig or Sertoli cell tumors, human chorionic gonadotropin [hCG]—producing tumors, and adrenocortical tumors) but it is more commonly are caused by increased extragonadal conversion of androgens to estrogens by tissue aromatase (as occurs in obesity).
The hypoglycemic medication that can induce weight loss	Metformin
Which anti-hyperglycemic agent causes B12 deficiency?	Metformin Due to B12 malabsorption. The current and more likely explanation for metformin-induced vitamin B12 malabsorption and deficiency is that metformin has an effect on calcium-dependent membrane action in the terminal ileum. Absorption of the vitamin B12-intrinsic factor complex is calcium dependent and metformin interferes with this absorption. In support of this hypothesis is evidence that dietary calcium supplementation reverses metformin-induced vitamin B12 malabsorption.
Which two classes of hypoglycemic medications are contraindicated in T2DM with gastroparesis?	GLP-1 agonists / DPP4 inhibitors - Exenatide / Liraglutide Amylin analogues - Pramlintide Increased Levels of GLP-1 slow gastric emptying     Pramlintide is an analogue of amylin, a small peptide hormone that is released into the bloodstream by the β-cells of the pancreas along with insulin, after a meal. Like insulin, amylin is completely absent in individuals with Type I diabetes. By augmenting endogenous amylin, pramlintide aids in the cellular absorption and regulation of blood glucose by slowing gastric emptying, promoting satiety via hypothalamic receptors (different receptors than for GLP-1), and inhibiting inappropriate secretion of glucagon, a catabolic hormone that opposes the effects of insulin and amylin. Pramlintide also has effects in raising the acute first-phase insulin response threshold following a meal.
Cause of diabetic gastroparesis	Loss of interstitial cells of cajal (pacemaker of the gut)
What is the term for patients with T2DM whom present with diabetic ketoacidosis? Do they require long-term insulin?	Ketosis prone T2DM They are eventually able to wean off insulin
Management of lipodystrophy, hyperlipidemia and insulin resistance in HIV patients on protease inhibitors	Metformin and Pravastatin
Describe this lesion in a diabetic:	Necrobiosis lipoidica
Describe this lesion in a diabetic:	necrobiosis lipoidica
Fasting BGL limits for diagnosing T2DM	Fasting blood glucose >6.1mmol/L or Fasting plasma glucose 7mmol/L
OGTT: When to perform, and limits	When fasting BSL is 5.5-6.9 or random BSL is 5.5-11.0 indicating uncertain diabetes status  Diagnosis2 hours post OGTT No Diabetes<7.8Prediabetes7.8-11Diabetes≥11.1
Defining Gestational Diabetes	Diagnosis made on 1 of the three following criteria   OGTT at 24-28 weeks Gestation Fasting≥5.1 mmol/L1 Hour≥10.0 mmol/L2 Hour≥8.5 mmol/L
Markers of bone resorption and formation	Bone ResorptionBone Formation HydroxyprolineALPDeoxypyridinilineOsteocalcinN or C telopeptideProcollagen C-terminal propeptideProcollagen N-terminal propeptide
