#separator:tab
#html:false
Primary biliary cirrhosis:    Etiology - autoimmune    Epidemiology - middle-aged women   Presentation - pruritis and jaundice   Cause of death - chronic progressive and often fatal cholestatic liver disease, characterized by progressive destruction of the bile ducts and eventual cirrhosis   Primary histological feature - [...]	"Primary biliary cirrhosis:    Etiology - autoimmune    Epidemiology - middle-aged women   Presentation - pruritis and jaundice   Cause of death - chronic progressive and often fatal cholestatic liver disease, characterized by progressive destruction of the bile ducts and eventual cirrhosis   Primary histological feature - non-suppurative, granulomatous destruction of medium-sized (interlobular) intrahepatic bile ducts (""florid duct lesion"")"
"Primary biliary cirrhosis:    Etiology - autoimmune    Epidemiology - middle-aged women   Presentation - [...]   Cause of death - [...]   Primary histological feature - non-suppurative, granulomatous destruction of medium-sized (interlobular) intrahepatic bile ducts (""florid duct lesion"")"	"Primary biliary cirrhosis:    Etiology - autoimmune    Epidemiology - middle-aged women   Presentation - pruritis and jaundice   Cause of death - chronic progressive and often fatal cholestatic liver disease, characterized by progressive destruction of the bile ducts and eventual cirrhosis   Primary histological feature - non-suppurative, granulomatous destruction of medium-sized (interlobular) intrahepatic bile ducts (""florid duct lesion"")"
"Primary biliary cirrhosis:    Etiology - [...]    Epidemiology - [...]   Presentation - pruritis and jaundice   Cause of death - chronic progressive and often fatal cholestatic liver disease, characterized by progressive destruction of the bile ducts and eventual cirrhosis   Primary histological feature - non-suppurative, granulomatous destruction of medium-sized (interlobular) intrahepatic bile ducts (""florid duct lesion"")"	"Primary biliary cirrhosis:    Etiology - autoimmune    Epidemiology - middle-aged women   Presentation - pruritis and jaundice   Cause of death - chronic progressive and often fatal cholestatic liver disease, characterized by progressive destruction of the bile ducts and eventual cirrhosis   Primary histological feature - non-suppurative, granulomatous destruction of medium-sized (interlobular) intrahepatic bile ducts (""florid duct lesion"")"
Primary Sclerosing Cholangitis:    Epidemiology - twice more in males   Pathogenesis - inflammation, obliterative fibrosis and segmental constriction of the intrahepatic and extrahepatic ducts, includes the bile duct   Associated comorbidity - chronic ulcerative colitis Predisposes to developing -  cholangiocarcinoma   Histological features - [...]	"Primary Sclerosing Cholangitis:    Epidemiology - twice more in males   Pathogenesis - inflammation, obliterative fibrosis and segmental constriction of the intrahepatic and extrahepatic ducts, includes the bile duct   Associated comorbidity - chronic ulcerative colitis Predisposes to developing -  cholangiocarcinoma   Histological features - periductal portal tract fibrosis of intra and extra-hepatic ducts - ""onion-skin"" and ""pipestem fibrosis""       Inflammed ducts demonstrate ""beading""   Cholangiopancreatographic study shows multiple strictures of the common bile duct interspersed with focal dilatations (arrows) gives the beaded appearance."
"Primary Sclerosing Cholangitis:    Epidemiology - twice more in males   Pathogenesis - inflammation, obliterative fibrosis and segmental constriction of the intrahepatic and extrahepatic ducts, includes the bile duct   Associated comorbidity - [...] Predisposes to developing -  [...]   Histological features - periductal portal tract fibrosis of intra and extra-hepatic ducts - ""onion-skin"" and ""pipestem fibrosis"""	"Primary Sclerosing Cholangitis:    Epidemiology - twice more in males   Pathogenesis - inflammation, obliterative fibrosis and segmental constriction of the intrahepatic and extrahepatic ducts, includes the bile duct   Associated comorbidity - chronic ulcerative colitis Predisposes to developing -  cholangiocarcinoma   Histological features - periductal portal tract fibrosis of intra and extra-hepatic ducts - ""onion-skin"" and ""pipestem fibrosis""       Inflammed ducts demonstrate ""beading""   Cholangiopancreatographic study shows multiple strictures of the common bile duct interspersed with focal dilatations (arrows) gives the beaded appearance."
"Primary Sclerosing Cholangitis:    Epidemiology - [...]   Pathogenesis - [...]   Associated comorbidity - chronic ulcerative colitis Predisposes to developing -  cholangiocarcinoma   Histological features - periductal portal tract fibrosis of intra and extra-hepatic ducts - ""onion-skin"" and ""pipestem fibrosis"""	"Primary Sclerosing Cholangitis:    Epidemiology - twice more in males   Pathogenesis - inflammation, obliterative fibrosis and segmental constriction of the intrahepatic and extrahepatic ducts, includes the bile duct   Associated comorbidity - chronic ulcerative colitis Predisposes to developing -  cholangiocarcinoma   Histological features - periductal portal tract fibrosis of intra and extra-hepatic ducts - ""onion-skin"" and ""pipestem fibrosis""       Inflammed ducts demonstrate ""beading""   Cholangiopancreatographic study shows multiple strictures of the common bile duct interspersed with focal dilatations (arrows) gives the beaded appearance."
Autoimmune hepatitis   Clinically and histologically idistinguishable from - [...]   Epidemiology - [...]   Serology - [...] Type 1 - [...] Type 2 - [...]   Note that 60% have other froms of autoimmune disease.    Associated HLA - HLA-DR3 (RR of 15), early onset and severe form of disease in girls and young women   Treatment - Glucocorticoid +/- azathioprine	Autoimmune hepatitis   Clinically and histologically idistinguishable from - chronic viral hepatitis (but NO viral markers, important to differentiate for therapy)   Epidemiology - 70% young perimenopausal women   Serology - elevated IgG Type 1 - ANA, anti-smooth muscle antibody & anti-actin  Type 2 - anti-LKM-1 Antibody & anti-liver cytosol antibody-1   Note that 60% have other froms of autoimmune disease.    Associated HLA - HLA-DR3 (RR of 15), early onset and severe form of disease in girls and young women   Treatment - Glucocorticoid +/- azathioprine
Primary hemochromatosis:    Epidemiology - predominantly men > 40   Deposited molecule - [...]    Organs affected by deposition (in decreasing order of severity) - [...]   Clinical presentation - hepatomegaly, abdominal pain, bronze skin pigmentation    Laboratory findings:  Serum iron - elevated Transferrin saturation - elevated  Ferritin - elevated    Treatment - phlebotomy (blood letting)	Primary hemochromatosis:    Epidemiology - predominantly men > 40   Deposited molecule - hemosiderin    Organs affected by deposition (in decreasing order of severity) - liver (induces cirrhosis), pancreas (induces fibrosis), myocardium, pituitary, adrenal, thyroid, joints and skin   Clinical presentation - hepatomegaly, abdominal pain, bronze skin pigmentation    Laboratory findings:  Serum iron - elevated Transferrin saturation - elevated  Ferritin - elevated    Treatment - phlebotomy (blood letting)
Primary hemochromatosis:    Epidemiology - [...]   Deposited molecule - hemosiderin    Organs affected by deposition (in decreasing order of severity) - liver (induces cirrhosis), pancreas (induces fibrosis), myocardium, pituitary, adrenal, thyroid, joints and skin   Clinical presentation - hepatomegaly, abdominal pain, bronze skin pigmentation    Laboratory findings:  Serum iron - elevated Transferrin saturation - elevated  Ferritin - elevated    Treatment - phlebotomy (blood letting)	Primary hemochromatosis:    Epidemiology - predominantly men > 40   Deposited molecule - hemosiderin    Organs affected by deposition (in decreasing order of severity) - liver (induces cirrhosis), pancreas (induces fibrosis), myocardium, pituitary, adrenal, thyroid, joints and skin   Clinical presentation - hepatomegaly, abdominal pain, bronze skin pigmentation    Laboratory findings:  Serum iron - elevated Transferrin saturation - elevated  Ferritin - elevated    Treatment - phlebotomy (blood letting)
Primary hemochromatosis:    Epidemiology - predominantly men > 40   Deposited molecule - hemosiderin    Organs affected by deposition (in decreasing order of severity) - liver (induces cirrhosis), pancreas (induces fibrosis), myocardium, pituitary, adrenal, thyroid, joints and skin   Clinical presentation - [...]   Laboratory findings:  Serum iron - elevated Transferrin saturation - elevated  Ferritin - elevated    Treatment - phlebotomy (blood letting)	Primary hemochromatosis:    Epidemiology - predominantly men > 40   Deposited molecule - hemosiderin    Organs affected by deposition (in decreasing order of severity) - liver (induces cirrhosis), pancreas (induces fibrosis), myocardium, pituitary, adrenal, thyroid, joints and skin   Clinical presentation - hepatomegaly, abdominal pain, bronze skin pigmentation    Laboratory findings:  Serum iron - elevated Transferrin saturation - elevated  Ferritin - elevated    Treatment - phlebotomy (blood letting)
Primary hemochromatosis:    Epidemiology - predominantly men > 40   Deposited molecule - hemosiderin    Organs affected by deposition (in decreasing order of severity) - liver (induces cirrhosis), pancreas (induces fibrosis), myocardium, pituitary, adrenal, thyroid, joints and skin   Clinical presentation - hepatomegaly, abdominal pain, bronze skin pigmentation    Laboratory findings:  Serum iron - elevated Transferrin saturation - elevated  Ferritin - elevated    Treatment - [...]	Primary hemochromatosis:    Epidemiology - predominantly men > 40   Deposited molecule - hemosiderin    Organs affected by deposition (in decreasing order of severity) - liver (induces cirrhosis), pancreas (induces fibrosis), myocardium, pituitary, adrenal, thyroid, joints and skin   Clinical presentation - hepatomegaly, abdominal pain, bronze skin pigmentation    Laboratory findings:  Serum iron - elevated Transferrin saturation - elevated  Ferritin - elevated    Treatment - phlebotomy (blood letting)
Primary hemochromatosis:    Epidemiology - predominantly men > 40   Deposited molecule - hemosiderin    Organs affected by deposition (in decreasing order of severity) - liver (induces cirrhosis), pancreas (induces fibrosis), myocardium, pituitary, adrenal, thyroid, joints and skin   Clinical presentation - hepatomegaly, abdominal pain, bronze skin pigmentation    Laboratory findings:  Serum iron - [...] Transferrin saturation - [...]  Ferritin - [...]    Treatment - phlebotomy (blood letting)	Primary hemochromatosis:    Epidemiology - predominantly men > 40   Deposited molecule - hemosiderin    Organs affected by deposition (in decreasing order of severity) - liver (induces cirrhosis), pancreas (induces fibrosis), myocardium, pituitary, adrenal, thyroid, joints and skin   Clinical presentation - hepatomegaly, abdominal pain, bronze skin pigmentation    Laboratory findings:  Serum iron - elevated Transferrin saturation - elevated  Ferritin - elevated    Treatment - phlebotomy (blood letting)
Autoimmune hepatitis   Clinically and histologically idistinguishable from - chronic viral hepatitis (but NO viral markers, important to differentiate for therapy)   Epidemiology - 70% young perimenopausal women   Serology - elevated IgG Type 1 - ANA, anti-smooth muscle antibody & anti-actin  Type 2 - anti-LKM-1 Antibody & anti-liver cytosol antibody-1   Note that 60% have other froms of autoimmune disease.    Associated HLA - HLA-DR3 (RR of 15), early onset and severe form of disease in girls and young women   Treatment - [...]	Autoimmune hepatitis   Clinically and histologically idistinguishable from - chronic viral hepatitis (but NO viral markers, important to differentiate for therapy)   Epidemiology - 70% young perimenopausal women   Serology - elevated IgG Type 1 - ANA, anti-smooth muscle antibody & anti-actin  Type 2 - anti-LKM-1 Antibody & anti-liver cytosol antibody-1   Note that 60% have other froms of autoimmune disease.    Associated HLA - HLA-DR3 (RR of 15), early onset and severe form of disease in girls and young women   Treatment - Glucocorticoid +/- azathioprine
Pernicious anemia   Epidemiology (age) - [...] Underlying cause - [...]   [...] - inhibit binding of B12 to intrinsic factor [...] -  inhibit binding of B12-intrinsic factor complex to ileal receptor [...] - recognizes proton pump on parietal cells   Effect of Achlorhydria - Inability to separate B12 from food so that it can bind to salivary R-proteins   Transcobalmin I - TCH I: AKA Haptocorrin, storage for 3/4 of all the B12 in the blood Transcobalmin II -  TCH II: Attaches to B12 in the intestinal cells and carries it to the rest of the body Transcobalmin III - TCH III: Storage for B12 in the liver	Pernicious anemia   Epidemiology (age) - 5th-6th decade (relatively late onset) Underlying cause - autoimmune destruction of chief and parietal cells of the gastric mucosa (chronic atrophic gastritis)   Type I anti-intrinsic factor antibodies - inhibit binding of B12 to intrinsic factor Type II anti-intrinsic factor antibodies -  inhibit binding of B12-intrinsic factor complex to ileal receptor Anti-Parietal Cell antibodies - recognizes proton pump on parietal cells   Effect of Achlorhydria - Inability to separate B12 from food so that it can bind to salivary R-proteins   Transcobalmin I - TCH I: AKA Haptocorrin, storage for 3/4 of all the B12 in the blood Transcobalmin II -  TCH II: Attaches to B12 in the intestinal cells and carries it to the rest of the body Transcobalmin III - TCH III: Storage for B12 in the liver
Pernicious anemia   Epidemiology (age) - 5th-6th decade (relatively late onset) Underlying cause - autoimmune destruction of chief and parietal cells of the gastric mucosa (chronic atrophic gastritis)   Type I anti-intrinsic factor antibodies - [...] Type II anti-intrinsic factor antibodies - [...] Anti-Parietal Cell antibodies - [...]   Effect of Achlorhydria - Inability to separate B12 from food so that it can bind to salivary R-proteins   Transcobalmin I - TCH I: AKA Haptocorrin, storage for 3/4 of all the B12 in the blood Transcobalmin II -  TCH II: Attaches to B12 in the intestinal cells and carries it to the rest of the body Transcobalmin III - TCH III: Storage for B12 in the liver	Pernicious anemia   Epidemiology (age) - 5th-6th decade (relatively late onset) Underlying cause - autoimmune destruction of chief and parietal cells of the gastric mucosa (chronic atrophic gastritis)   Type I anti-intrinsic factor antibodies - inhibit binding of B12 to intrinsic factor Type II anti-intrinsic factor antibodies -  inhibit binding of B12-intrinsic factor complex to ileal receptor Anti-Parietal Cell antibodies - recognizes proton pump on parietal cells   Effect of Achlorhydria - Inability to separate B12 from food so that it can bind to salivary R-proteins   Transcobalmin I - TCH I: AKA Haptocorrin, storage for 3/4 of all the B12 in the blood Transcobalmin II -  TCH II: Attaches to B12 in the intestinal cells and carries it to the rest of the body Transcobalmin III - TCH III: Storage for B12 in the liver
GIST (gastro-intestinal stromal tumor):    Neoplastic cells - [...]   Micro - [...]   Markers:  C-kit - also the most common identified mutation CD34 DOG-1 - discovered on GIST   Clinical presentation - anemia and others related to mass effect (often discovered incidentally on endoscopy, imaging or surgery)    Treatment - surgery and imatinib	GIST (gastro-intestinal stromal tumor):    Neoplastic cells - interstitial cells of Cajal (peristaltic pacemakers)   Micro - sheets of neoplastic spindle cells (previously mistaken for leiomyomas)   Markers:  C-kit - also the most common identified mutation CD34 DOG-1 - discovered on GIST   Clinical presentation - anemia and others related to mass effect (often discovered incidentally on endoscopy, imaging or surgery)    Treatment - surgery and imatinib
[...]:    Neoplastic cells - interstitial cells of Cajal (peristaltic pacemakers)   Micro - sheets of neoplastic spindle cells (previously mistaken for leiomyomas)   Markers:  C-kit - also the most common identified mutation CD34 DOG-1 - discovered on GIST   Clinical presentation - anemia and others related to mass effect (often discovered incidentally on endoscopy, imaging or surgery)    Treatment - surgery and imatinib	GIST (gastro-intestinal stromal tumor):    Neoplastic cells - interstitial cells of Cajal (peristaltic pacemakers)   Micro - sheets of neoplastic spindle cells (previously mistaken for leiomyomas)   Markers:  C-kit - also the most common identified mutation CD34 DOG-1 - discovered on GIST   Clinical presentation - anemia and others related to mass effect (often discovered incidentally on endoscopy, imaging or surgery)    Treatment - surgery and imatinib
GIST (gastro-intestinal stromal tumor):    Neoplastic cells - interstitial cells of Cajal (peristaltic pacemakers)   Micro - sheets of neoplastic spindle cells (previously mistaken for leiomyomas)   Markers:  [...] - also the most common identified mutation CD[...] [...]-1 - discovered on GIST   Clinical presentation - anemia and others related to mass effect (often discovered incidentally on endoscopy, imaging or surgery)    Treatment - surgery and imatinib	GIST (gastro-intestinal stromal tumor):    Neoplastic cells - interstitial cells of Cajal (peristaltic pacemakers)   Micro - sheets of neoplastic spindle cells (previously mistaken for leiomyomas)   Markers:  C-kit - also the most common identified mutation CD34 DOG-1 - discovered on GIST   Clinical presentation - anemia and others related to mass effect (often discovered incidentally on endoscopy, imaging or surgery)    Treatment - surgery and imatinib
GIST (gastro-intestinal stromal tumor):    Neoplastic cells - interstitial cells of Cajal (peristaltic pacemakers)   Micro - sheets of neoplastic spindle cells (previously mistaken for leiomyomas)   Markers:  C-kit - also the most common identified mutation CD34 DOG-1 - discovered on GIST   Clinical presentation - [...]   Treatment - surgery and [...]	GIST (gastro-intestinal stromal tumor):    Neoplastic cells - interstitial cells of Cajal (peristaltic pacemakers)   Micro - sheets of neoplastic spindle cells (previously mistaken for leiomyomas)   Markers:  C-kit - also the most common identified mutation CD34 DOG-1 - discovered on GIST   Clinical presentation - anemia and others related to mass effect (often discovered incidentally on endoscopy, imaging or surgery)    Treatment - surgery and imatinib
Ulcerative colitis:    Peak age of incidence - [...]   Anatomy:  Most common location - distal colon (almost always involving rectum) Pancolitis - involves full colon  Backwash ileitis - involves ileum   Gross mucosal features - broad-based ulcers, pseudopolyps and mucosal bridges   Microscopic features - crypt abscesses (cryptitis and distrortion of crypt architecture) with unaffcted muscularis and serosa (normal overall thickness of intestinal wall)   Complications:  Toxic megacolon - toxic damage to muscularis and neural plexus --> neuromuscular shutdown causes swelling and gangrene Prolonged pancolitis --> 10x increase for developing colon cancer Liver disease assciations - sclerosing cholangitis and bile duct carcinoma	Ulcerative colitis:    Peak age of incidence - 20-25 years (mostly females)   Anatomy:  Most common location - distal colon (almost always involving rectum) Pancolitis - involves full colon  Backwash ileitis - involves ileum   Gross mucosal features - broad-based ulcers, pseudopolyps and mucosal bridges   Microscopic features - crypt abscesses (cryptitis and distrortion of crypt architecture) with unaffcted muscularis and serosa (normal overall thickness of intestinal wall)   Complications:  Toxic megacolon - toxic damage to muscularis and neural plexus --> neuromuscular shutdown causes swelling and gangrene Prolonged pancolitis --> 10x increase for developing colon cancer Liver disease assciations - sclerosing cholangitis and bile duct carcinoma
Ulcerative colitis:    Peak age of incidence - 20-25 years (mostly females)   Anatomy:  Most common location - [...] [...] - involves full colon  [...] - involves ileum   Gross mucosal features - broad-based ulcers, pseudopolyps and mucosal bridges   Microscopic features - crypt abscesses (cryptitis and distrortion of crypt architecture) with unaffcted muscularis and serosa (normal overall thickness of intestinal wall)   Complications:  Toxic megacolon - toxic damage to muscularis and neural plexus --> neuromuscular shutdown causes swelling and gangrene Prolonged pancolitis --> 10x increase for developing colon cancer Liver disease assciations - sclerosing cholangitis and bile duct carcinoma	Ulcerative colitis:    Peak age of incidence - 20-25 years (mostly females)   Anatomy:  Most common location - distal colon (almost always involving rectum) Pancolitis - involves full colon  Backwash ileitis - involves ileum   Gross mucosal features - broad-based ulcers, pseudopolyps and mucosal bridges   Microscopic features - crypt abscesses (cryptitis and distrortion of crypt architecture) with unaffcted muscularis and serosa (normal overall thickness of intestinal wall)   Complications:  Toxic megacolon - toxic damage to muscularis and neural plexus --> neuromuscular shutdown causes swelling and gangrene Prolonged pancolitis --> 10x increase for developing colon cancer Liver disease assciations - sclerosing cholangitis and bile duct carcinoma
Ulcerative colitis:    Peak age of incidence - 20-25 years (mostly females)   Anatomy:  Most common location - distal colon (almost always involving rectum) Pancolitis - involves full colon  Backwash ileitis - involves ileum   Gross mucosal features - [...], [...] and [...]   Microscopic features - crypt abscesses (cryptitis and distrortion of crypt architecture) with unaffcted muscularis and serosa (normal overall thickness of intestinal wall)   Complications:  Toxic megacolon - toxic damage to muscularis and neural plexus --> neuromuscular shutdown causes swelling and gangrene Prolonged pancolitis --> 10x increase for developing colon cancer Liver disease assciations - sclerosing cholangitis and bile duct carcinoma	Ulcerative colitis:    Peak age of incidence - 20-25 years (mostly females)   Anatomy:  Most common location - distal colon (almost always involving rectum) Pancolitis - involves full colon  Backwash ileitis - involves ileum   Gross mucosal features - broad-based ulcers, pseudopolyps and mucosal bridges   Microscopic features - crypt abscesses (cryptitis and distrortion of crypt architecture) with unaffcted muscularis and serosa (normal overall thickness of intestinal wall)   Complications:  Toxic megacolon - toxic damage to muscularis and neural plexus --> neuromuscular shutdown causes swelling and gangrene Prolonged pancolitis --> 10x increase for developing colon cancer Liver disease assciations - sclerosing cholangitis and bile duct carcinoma
Ulcerative colitis:    Peak age of incidence - 20-25 years (mostly females)   Anatomy:  Most common location - distal colon (almost always involving rectum) Pancolitis - involves full colon  Backwash ileitis - involves ileum   Gross mucosal features - broad-based ulcers, pseudopolyps and mucosal bridges   Microscopic features - [...]   Complications:  Toxic megacolon - toxic damage to muscularis and neural plexus --> neuromuscular shutdown causes swelling and gangrene Prolonged pancolitis --> 10x increase for developing colon cancer Liver disease assciations - sclerosing cholangitis and bile duct carcinoma	Ulcerative colitis:    Peak age of incidence - 20-25 years (mostly females)   Anatomy:  Most common location - distal colon (almost always involving rectum) Pancolitis - involves full colon  Backwash ileitis - involves ileum   Gross mucosal features - broad-based ulcers, pseudopolyps and mucosal bridges   Microscopic features - crypt abscesses (cryptitis and distrortion of crypt architecture) with unaffcted muscularis and serosa (normal overall thickness of intestinal wall)   Complications:  Toxic megacolon - toxic damage to muscularis and neural plexus --> neuromuscular shutdown causes swelling and gangrene Prolonged pancolitis --> 10x increase for developing colon cancer Liver disease assciations - sclerosing cholangitis and bile duct carcinoma
Ulcerative colitis:    Peak age of incidence - 20-25 years (mostly females)   Anatomy:  Most common location - distal colon (almost always involving rectum) Pancolitis - involves full colon  Backwash ileitis - involves ileum   Gross mucosal features - broad-based ulcers, pseudopolyps and mucosal bridges   Microscopic features - crypt abscesses (cryptitis and distrortion of crypt architecture) with unaffcted muscularis and serosa (normal overall thickness of intestinal wall)   Complications:  [...] - toxic damage to muscularis and neural plexus --> neuromuscular shutdown causes swelling and gangrene Prolonged pancolitis --> 10x increase for developing [...] Liver disease assciations - [...] and [...]	Ulcerative colitis:    Peak age of incidence - 20-25 years (mostly females)   Anatomy:  Most common location - distal colon (almost always involving rectum) Pancolitis - involves full colon  Backwash ileitis - involves ileum   Gross mucosal features - broad-based ulcers, pseudopolyps and mucosal bridges   Microscopic features - crypt abscesses (cryptitis and distrortion of crypt architecture) with unaffcted muscularis and serosa (normal overall thickness of intestinal wall)   Complications:  Toxic megacolon - toxic damage to muscularis and neural plexus --> neuromuscular shutdown causes swelling and gangrene Prolonged pancolitis --> 10x increase for developing colon cancer Liver disease assciations - sclerosing cholangitis and bile duct carcinoma
Extrahepatic Manifestations of Hepatitis C (6)	"MMIPLL ""mipple""Mixed Essential Cryoglobulinemia Membranoproliferative glomerulonephritis (deposition of anti-HCV Immunoglobulin) Immune thrombocytopenia Porphyria cutanea tarda Lymphoplasmacytic lymphoma Lichen Planus"
Cause of hepatic encephalopathy	Gut-derived toxins such as ammonia are thought to play a central role
How does lactulose reduce hepatic encephalopathy?	In the colon, lactulose sugar is metabolised to carbon dioxide, lactic acid and acetic acid resulting in acidification of the gut lumen. This favors conversion of ammonia (NH3) to ammonium (NH4+), which is relatively membrane impermeable, thus does not enter the circulation (cerebrum) The other medication used in hepatic encephalopathy is rifaximin, effectively reducing bacterial loads which reduces ammonia production
What nephropathy is associated with hepatitis C	Membranoproliferative Glomerulonephritis / membranous
How is budd-chiari syndrome different from sinusoidal obstructive/occlusive syndrome or hepatic outflow	hepatic venous outflow obstruction in SOS is due to occlusion of the terminal hepatic venules and hepatic sinusoids rather than the hepatic veins and inferior vena cava.
What is the rate of reactivation of chronic hepatitis B in patients undergoing immunosuppressive or antineoplastic treatment?	30-50%
Patients with positive HBsAg, chronic hepatitis B or those who have already had an episode of HBV reactivation and scheduled to receive systemic cancer therapy should receive what form of prophylaxis?	lamivudine 100 mg qd for 8-12 weeks Pre-emptive antiviral prophylaxis for HBsAg-positive patients is currently recommended during and at least 6–12 months following the completion of immunosuppression, because it has been shown that this strategy drastically reduces the re-activation rates of HBV.
What is the West Haven criteria for Hepatic Encephalopathy?	Grade 1 - Trivial lack of awareness; euphoria or anxiety; shortened attention span; impaired performance of addition or subtraction; Grade 2 - Lethargy or apathy; minimal disorientation for time or place; subtle personality change; inappropriate behaviour; Grade 3 - Somnolence to semistupor, but responsive to verbal stimuli; confusion; gross disorientation; Grade 4 - Coma
Most specific histopathological sign of alcoholic hepatitis	Neutrophilic infiltrate The most specific sign of alcoholic hepatitis is inflammation - neutrophilic invasion is triggered by the necrotic changes and presence of cellular debris within the lobules. Ordinarily the amount of debris is removed by Kupffer cells, although in the setting of inflammation they become overloaded, allowing other white cells to spill into the parenchyma. Mallory's hyaline body - a condition where pre-keratin filaments accumulate in hepatocytes. This sign is not limited to alcoholic liver disease, but is often characteristic.
What is the AST/ALT ratio in alcoholic hepatitis?	approximately 2
Which of the following are most likely to cause esophageal ulceration: NSAIDs, bisphosphonates & antibiotics	Antibiotics are most common. Bisphosphonates, then NSAIDs Doxycycline + tetracycline in particular
What is boceprevir and in what illness is it used, and how well does it work?	Hepatitis C genotype 1, protease inhibitor, in combination with peginterferon–ribavirin Induces sustained virological response in 70% of people
What is telaprevir and in what illness is it used, and how well does it work?	Hepatitis C genotype 1, protease inhibitor, in combination with peginterferon–ribavirin Induces sustained virological response in 75% of people
What is  ritonavir-boosted lopinavir?	Co-administering another protease inhibitor with ritonavir to boost its efficacy by increasing it's levels Ritonavir is an ideal pharmacologic enhancer because it inhibits two key stages of metabolism. First, it inhibits what is known as first-pass metabolism, which occurs during absorption. Enterocytes that line the intestine contain both CYP3A4, one of the key cytochrome P450 isoenzymes associated with drug metabolism, and P-glycoprotein, an efflux transporter that can effectively pump drugs out of the gut wall and back into the intestinal lumen. Ritonavir appears to inhibit both of these proteins and, consequently, may increase a coadministered drug’s Cmax. Second, ritonavir inhibits CYP3A4 in the liver, thereby maintaining a drug’s plasma half-life. It is also possible that ritonavir inhibits P-glycoprotein found in CD4+ cells. As a result, less drug is transported back out of the cell, thereby increasing the drug’s intracellular half-life.
Most common causes of acute and chronic pancreatitis	Acute: gallstones (50%) then alcohol, Chronic: alcohol
Which factor is most useful as a marker of recent nutritional status?	Prealbumin, half-life of 2 days Prealbumin is produced by the choroid plexus, by pancreatic islet cells in the embryonic yolk sac, and by enterochromaffin cells in the gastrointestinal mucosa, but the liver is quantitatively the most important source. Liver production is maintained until late in liver disease. Hydration status does not affect prealbumin levels.  A negative acute phase reactant, the prealbumin level will transiently decrease in the presence of inflammation and in the immediate postsurgical period. (Albumin HL - 20 days, Transferrin HL - 10 days)
Which acute hepatitis do you treat?	Hepatitis C & Alcoholic Hepatitis  Acute hepatitis A & B is managed with supportive therapies. Hepatitis B with HbeAg and high viral load that requires antivirals represents chronic hepatitis B. Treatment of chronic HCV infection has 2 goals. The first is to achieve sustained eradication of HCV (ie, SVR), which is defined as the persistent absence of HCV RNA in serum 6 months or more after completing antiviral treatment. The second goal is to prevent progression to cirrhosis, hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), and decompensated liver disease requiring liver transplantation.Peg-interferon for 6-24 weeks, if HCV RNA is not cleared in 3 months, add ribavirin. Genotype I treat for ~24 weeks, genotype 2, 3 treat for 12 weeks.   Treatment with the steroid prednisolone reduced 28-day mortality in patients with severe alcoholic hepatitis, while treatment with the oral phosphodiesterase inhibitor pentoxifylline did not, according to the results of a study involving 1,103 subjects.
Autoimmune hepatitis   Clinically and histologically idistinguishable from - chronic viral hepatitis (but NO viral markers, important to differentiate for therapy)   Epidemiology - 70% young perimenopausal women   Serology - elevated IgG Type 1 - ANA, anti-smooth muscle antibody & anti-actin  Type 2 - anti-LKM-1 Antibody & anti-liver cytosol antibody-1   Note that 60% have other froms of autoimmune disease.    Associated HLA - [...]   Treatment - Glucocorticoid +/- azathioprine	Autoimmune hepatitis   Clinically and histologically idistinguishable from - chronic viral hepatitis (but NO viral markers, important to differentiate for therapy)   Epidemiology - 70% young perimenopausal women   Serology - elevated IgG Type 1 - ANA, anti-smooth muscle antibody & anti-actin  Type 2 - anti-LKM-1 Antibody & anti-liver cytosol antibody-1   Note that 60% have other froms of autoimmune disease.    Associated HLA - HLA-DR3 (RR of 15), early onset and severe form of disease in girls and young women   Treatment - Glucocorticoid +/- azathioprine
Anti-liver cytosol antibody-1	Type II - Autoimmune hepatitis Antibodiy
Type II - Autoimmune hepatitis Antibodiy	Anti-liver cytosol antibody-1
Most common Hepatitis C genotypes	"Genotype 1 (50%) Genotype 3 (30%) Genotype 2 (5%)   ""Treating hepatitis C – what’s new?"" Aust Prescr 2015;38:191-7 | 18 September 2015 | http://dx.doi.org/10.18773/austprescr.2015.068"
Duration of antiviral therapy for HCV by genotype:	Genotype 1 - 8-12 weeks (all oral sofusbevir-ledipasivir)   Genotype 2 - 12 weeks (without cirrhosis) to 16 weeks (with cirrhosis) with sofusbevir-ribavirin   Genotype 3 - 12 weeks (without cirrhosis) with sofusbevir-daclatasivir to 16 weeks (with cirrhosis) with sofusbevir-daclatasivir-ribavirin
Hereditary non-polyposis colorectal cancer is caused by what genetic abnormality?	MLH1, MSH2, MSH6, PMS2 and EPCAMAutosomal dominant, mismatch repair gene mutation leading to microsatellite instability.  The MLH1, MSH2, MSH6, and PMS2 genes are involved in the mismatch repair of mistakes that occur when DNA is copied during DNA replication.  Mutations in the EPCAM gene also lead to impaired DNA repair, although the gene is not itself involved in this process. The EPCAM gene lies next to the MSH2 gene on chromosome 2; certain EPCAM gene mutations cause the MSH2 gene to be turned off (inactivated), interrupting DNA repair and leading to accumulated DNA mistakes.
Principal risk factors (4) for NSAID-induced GI hemorrhage	In order of importanceage (4.7x to 8x)a history of prior NSAID-related ulcerationcorticosteroid usedebility
Most important function of CEA in colon cancer?	To detect resectable relapses
The most common cause of GORD is (2):	Periodic relaxation of the lower oesophageal sphincterA low resting lower esophageal sphincter pressure (less important)
Describe the zones of liver lobule pathology and associated pathology	Zone 1 Periportal - Iron overload, primary billiary cirrhosis Zone 2  Zone 3 Centrilobular - paracetamol, ethanol, ischemic hepatitis  The center of the acini is the central vein going to the heart, the portal venule is from the portal system. Blood goes from center of acini (central vein)
Predominant stimulus for gastric acid secretion?	Gastrin Typically raised in patients on PPIs
Distal gastrectomy causes what kind of deficiency?	Iron Deficiency B12 deficiency occurs more after total gastrectomy, or gastric bypass, but iron deficiency is more common. Low gastric acid secretion is required to make the iron soluable for absorption.  Gastric bypass surgery may bypass areas of the small bowel associated with absorption.
Marker of acute hepatitis B infection	Hepatitis B core IgM
Four Stages of Hepatitis B and Indications for Treatment  StageHBV DNA LevelLFTsHBe-AgHbe-AbManagement [...]HighNormalPresentAbsent[...][...]HighAbnormalPresentPresent[...][...]LowNormalAbsentPresent[...][...]HighAbnormalAbsentPresent[...]   Indications for Treatement in HBV  1) Presence of HBeAg plus a serum alanine transaminase level greater than twice the normal level (clearance phase) 2) Presence of HBV DNA plus a serum alanine transaminase level greater than twice the normal level (clearance or escape phase)  3) Moderate to severe hepatitis on liver biopsy 4) Presence of HBV DNA plus cirrhosis	Four Stages of Hepatitis B and Indications for Treatment  StageHBV DNA LevelLFTsHBe-AgHbe-AbManagement Immune ToleranceHighNormalPresentAbsentMonitor every 6-12 monthsImmune ClearanceHighAbnormalPresentPresentAssess for treatmentImmune ControlLowNormalAbsentPresentMonitor every 6-12 monthsImmune EscapeHighAbnormalAbsentPresentAssess for treatment   Indications for Treatement in HBV  1) Presence of HBeAg plus a serum alanine transaminase level greater than twice the normal level (clearance phase) 2) Presence of HBV DNA plus a serum alanine transaminase level greater than twice the normal level (clearance or escape phase)  3) Moderate to severe hepatitis on liver biopsy 4) Presence of HBV DNA plus cirrhosis   Four stages can be remembered as TOLERANCE: TOLErance, cleaRANce, Control, Escape
Four Stages of Hepatitis B and Indications for Treatment  StageHBV DNA LevelLFTsHBe-AgHbe-AbManagement Immune Tolerance[...][...][...][...]Monitor every 6-12 monthsImmune Clearance[...][...][...][...]Assess for treatmentImmune Control[...][...][...][...]Monitor every 6-12 monthsImmune Escape[...][...][...][...]Assess for treatment   Indications for Treatement in HBV  1) Presence of HBeAg plus a serum alanine transaminase level greater than twice the normal level (clearance phase) 2) Presence of HBV DNA plus a serum alanine transaminase level greater than twice the normal level (clearance or escape phase)  3) Moderate to severe hepatitis on liver biopsy 4) Presence of HBV DNA plus cirrhosis	Four Stages of Hepatitis B and Indications for Treatment  StageHBV DNA LevelLFTsHBe-AgHbe-AbManagement Immune ToleranceHighNormalPresentAbsentMonitor every 6-12 monthsImmune ClearanceHighAbnormalPresentPresentAssess for treatmentImmune ControlLowNormalAbsentPresentMonitor every 6-12 monthsImmune EscapeHighAbnormalAbsentPresentAssess for treatment   Indications for Treatement in HBV  1) Presence of HBeAg plus a serum alanine transaminase level greater than twice the normal level (clearance phase) 2) Presence of HBV DNA plus a serum alanine transaminase level greater than twice the normal level (clearance or escape phase)  3) Moderate to severe hepatitis on liver biopsy 4) Presence of HBV DNA plus cirrhosis   Four stages can be remembered as TOLERANCE: TOLErance, cleaRANce, Control, Escape
Four Stages of Hepatitis B and Indications for Treatment  StageHBV DNA LevelLFTsHBe-AgHbe-AbManagement Immune ToleranceHighNormalPresentAbsentMonitor every 6-12 monthsImmune ClearanceHighAbnormalPresentPresentAssess for treatmentImmune ControlLowNormalAbsentPresentMonitor every 6-12 monthsImmune EscapeHighAbnormalAbsentPresentAssess for treatment   Indications for Treatement in HBV  1) [...] 2) [...] 3) [...] 4) [...]	Four Stages of Hepatitis B and Indications for Treatment  StageHBV DNA LevelLFTsHBe-AgHbe-AbManagement Immune ToleranceHighNormalPresentAbsentMonitor every 6-12 monthsImmune ClearanceHighAbnormalPresentPresentAssess for treatmentImmune ControlLowNormalAbsentPresentMonitor every 6-12 monthsImmune EscapeHighAbnormalAbsentPresentAssess for treatment   Indications for Treatement in HBV  1) Presence of HBeAg plus a serum alanine transaminase level greater than twice the normal level (clearance phase) 2) Presence of HBV DNA plus a serum alanine transaminase level greater than twice the normal level (clearance or escape phase)  3) Moderate to severe hepatitis on liver biopsy 4) Presence of HBV DNA plus cirrhosis   Four stages can be remembered as TOLERANCE: TOLErance, cleaRANce, Control, Escape
Two indications for metronidazole in Crohn's disease	1) Perianal crohns with sepsis 2) Minimize disease relapse risk post-surgery
Pernicious anemia   Epidemiology (age) - 5th-6th decade (relatively late onset) Underlying cause - autoimmune destruction of chief and parietal cells of the gastric mucosa (chronic atrophic gastritis)   Type I anti-intrinsic factor antibodies - inhibit binding of B12 to intrinsic factor Type II anti-intrinsic factor antibodies -  inhibit binding of B12-intrinsic factor complex to ileal receptor Anti-Parietal Cell antibodies - recognizes proton pump on parietal cells   Effect of Achlorhydria - [...]   Transcobalmin I - [...] Transcobalmin II -  [...] Transcobalmin III - [...]	Pernicious anemia   Epidemiology (age) - 5th-6th decade (relatively late onset) Underlying cause - autoimmune destruction of chief and parietal cells of the gastric mucosa (chronic atrophic gastritis)   Type I anti-intrinsic factor antibodies - inhibit binding of B12 to intrinsic factor Type II anti-intrinsic factor antibodies -  inhibit binding of B12-intrinsic factor complex to ileal receptor Anti-Parietal Cell antibodies - recognizes proton pump on parietal cells   Effect of Achlorhydria - Inability to separate B12 from food so that it can bind to salivary R-proteins   Transcobalmin I - TCH I: AKA Haptocorrin, storage for 3/4 of all the B12 in the blood Transcobalmin II -  TCH II: Attaches to B12 in the intestinal cells and carries it to the rest of the body Transcobalmin III - TCH III: Storage for B12 in the liver
Hepatitis C management (2016) (Interferon-free regimens) Genotype 1 - [...], response rates >95% Genotype 3 - [...], response rates >80-90% Genotype 2 - [...], response rates >80-90%	"Hepatitis C management (2016) (Interferon-free regimens) Genotype 1 - Sofosbuvir + Ledipasivir for 12 weeks, response rates >95% Genotype 3 - Sofosbuvir + daily ribavirin for 24 weeks, response rates >80-90% Genotype 2 - Sofosbuvir + daily ribavirin for 12 weeks, response rates >80-90%      ""Treating hepatitis C – what’s new?"" Aust Prescr 2015;38:191-7 | 18 September 2015 | http://dx.doi.org/10.18773/austprescr.2015.068"
Hepatitis C management (2016) (Interferon-free regimens) Genotype 1 - Sofosbuvir + Ledipasivir for 12 weeks, response rates [...] Genotype 3 - Sofosbuvir + daily ribavirin for 24 weeks, response rates [...] Genotype 2 - Sofosbuvir + daily ribavirin for 12 weeks, response rates [...]	"Hepatitis C management (2016) (Interferon-free regimens) Genotype 1 - Sofosbuvir + Ledipasivir for 12 weeks, response rates >95% Genotype 3 - Sofosbuvir + daily ribavirin for 24 weeks, response rates >80-90% Genotype 2 - Sofosbuvir + daily ribavirin for 12 weeks, response rates >80-90%      ""Treating hepatitis C – what’s new?"" Aust Prescr 2015;38:191-7 | 18 September 2015 | http://dx.doi.org/10.18773/austprescr.2015.068"
Transient elastography (FibroScan) is a non-invasive ultrasonic technique for measuring liver stiffness as a marker of the stage of [...]. A key question is what threshold of liver stiffness should be used to define [...], as this has implications for treatment duration.    A reasonable threshold for treatment decision making is [...].	Transient elastography (FibroScan) is a non-invasive ultrasonic technique for measuring liver stiffness as a marker of the stage of liver fibrosis. A key question is what threshold of liver stiffness should be used to define cirrhosis, as this has implications for treatment duration.    A reasonable threshold for treatment decision making is 12.5 kPa.
[...] is a non-invasive ultrasonic technique for measuring liver stiffness as a marker of the stage of liver fibrosis. A key question is what threshold of liver stiffness should be used to define cirrhosis, as this has implications for treatment duration.    A reasonable threshold for treatment decision making is 12.5 kPa.	Transient elastography (FibroScan) is a non-invasive ultrasonic technique for measuring liver stiffness as a marker of the stage of liver fibrosis. A key question is what threshold of liver stiffness should be used to define cirrhosis, as this has implications for treatment duration.    A reasonable threshold for treatment decision making is 12.5 kPa.
A 45yo male is found to have an adenocarcinoma of the sigmoid colon. The rest of his colonoscopy was normal. He has no other family or personal history of cancer. Immunohistochemistry of the tumour showed mismatch repair mutations in MLH1, MSH2, and MSH6 in the tumour and adjacent normal tissue. What would be the surveillance recommendations for his children?	Yearly or biennial colonoscopy from age 25 Yearly or Biennial total colonic surveillance should start at age 25 years, or two to five years less than the first cancer case in the family, whichever is the earlier. Surveillance should continue to 75 years or until the causative mutation in that family has been excluded.
