#separator:tab
#html:false
Disorders of the complement system:    [...] deficiency --> most severe, results in quick death from infections without treatment.    [...] deficiency and [...] deficiency --> not so bad, though highly correlated with autoimmune diseases, especially lupus   [...] deficiency --> increased risk of Neisseria infections (e.g. meningitis)   Defects in [...] --> paroxysmal nocturnal hemoglobinuria	Disorders of the complement system:    C3 deficiency --> most severe, results in quick death from infections without treatment.    C2 deficiency and C4 deficiency --> not so bad, though highly correlated with autoimmune diseases, especially lupus   MAC (C6-C9) deficiency --> increased risk of Neisseria infections (e.g. meningitis)   Defects in linking decay accelerating factor (DAF)/CD55 and C8 binding protein (C8bp), restrict CD59 binding to GPI anchor on RBCs to prevent the MAC attack complex --> paroxysmal nocturnal hemoglobinuria
Disorders of the complement system:    C3 deficiency --> [...]    C2 deficiency and C4 deficiency --> [...]   MAC (C6-C9) deficiency --> [...]   Defects in linking decay accelerating factor (DAF)/CD55 and C8 binding protein (C8bp), restrict CD59 binding to GPI anchor on RBCs to prevent the MAC attack complex --> [...]	Disorders of the complement system:    C3 deficiency --> most severe, results in quick death from infections without treatment.    C2 deficiency and C4 deficiency --> not so bad, though highly correlated with autoimmune diseases, especially lupus   MAC (C6-C9) deficiency --> increased risk of Neisseria infections (e.g. meningitis)   Defects in linking decay accelerating factor (DAF)/CD55 and C8 binding protein (C8bp), restrict CD59 binding to GPI anchor on RBCs to prevent the MAC attack complex --> paroxysmal nocturnal hemoglobinuria
Acute phase proteins:    [...]:  Function - causes RBCs to stack which increases sedimentation rate (raised ESR). Induced by - IL-6   [...]:  Function - binds to microbes and chromatin --> fixes complement  Induced by - IL-6   [...]:    Function - binds to microbes (gram-negative) and chromatin --> fixes complement + displaces ApoA in HDL during acute inflammation enhancing macrophage phagocytosis  Induced by - IL-1 and TNF-alpha	Acute phase proteins:    Fibrinogen:  Function - causes RBCs to stack which increases sedimentation rate (raised ESR). Induced by - IL-6   C-reactive protein:  Function - binds to microbes and chromatin --> fixes complement  Induced by - IL-6   Serum amyloid-A protein:    Function - binds to microbes (gram-negative) and chromatin --> fixes complement + displaces ApoA in HDL during acute inflammation enhancing macrophage phagocytosis  Induced by - IL-1 and TNF-alpha
Acute phase proteins:    Fibrinogen:  Function - [...] Induced by - IL-6   C-reactive protein:  Function - [...]  Induced by - IL-6   Serum amyloid-A protein:    Function - [...]  Induced by - IL-1 and TNF-alpha	Acute phase proteins:    Fibrinogen:  Function - causes RBCs to stack which increases sedimentation rate (raised ESR). Induced by - IL-6   C-reactive protein:  Function - binds to microbes and chromatin --> fixes complement  Induced by - IL-6   Serum amyloid-A protein:    Function - binds to microbes (gram-negative) and chromatin --> fixes complement + displaces ApoA in HDL during acute inflammation enhancing macrophage phagocytosis  Induced by - IL-1 and TNF-alpha
Acute phase proteins:    Fibrinogen:  Function - causes RBCs to stack which increases sedimentation rate (raised ESR). Induced by - [...]   C-reactive protein:  Function - binds to microbes and chromatin --> fixes complement  Induced by - [...]   Serum amyloid-A protein:    Function - binds to microbes (gram-negative) and chromatin --> fixes complement + displaces ApoA in HDL during acute inflammation enhancing macrophage phagocytosis  Induced by - [...]	Acute phase proteins:    Fibrinogen:  Function - causes RBCs to stack which increases sedimentation rate (raised ESR). Induced by - IL-6   C-reactive protein:  Function - binds to microbes and chromatin --> fixes complement  Induced by - IL-6   Serum amyloid-A protein:    Function - binds to microbes (gram-negative) and chromatin --> fixes complement + displaces ApoA in HDL during acute inflammation enhancing macrophage phagocytosis  Induced by - IL-1 and TNF-alpha
	
CD4 cell subsets:    Th1:  Induced by - IFNγ and IL-12 Cytokines produced - IFNγ Actions - [...]    Th2:  Induced by -  IL-4 Cytokines produced - IL-4, IL-5, IL-13 Actions - IgE production and eosinophil activation    Th17:  Induced by -   TGFβ, IL-6, IL-1, IL-23 Cytokines produced - IL-17, IL-22 Actions - recruit monocytes & neutrophils	CD4 cell subsets:    Th1:  Induced by - IFNγ and IL-12 Cytokines produced - IFNγ Actions - MØ activation and IgG production     Th2:  Induced by -  IL-4 Cytokines produced - IL-4, IL-5, IL-13 Actions - IgE production and eosinophil activation    Th17:  Induced by -   TGFβ, IL-6, IL-1, IL-23 Cytokines produced - IL-17, IL-22 Actions - recruit monocytes & neutrophils
CD4 cell subsets:    Th1:  Induced by - [...] Cytokines produced - [...] Actions - MØ activation and IgG production     Th2:  Induced by -  IL-4 Cytokines produced - IL-4, IL-5, IL-13 Actions - IgE production and eosinophil activation    Th17:  Induced by -   TGFβ, IL-6, IL-1, IL-23 Cytokines produced - IL-17, IL-22 Actions - recruit monocytes & neutrophils	CD4 cell subsets:    Th1:  Induced by - IFNγ and IL-12 Cytokines produced - IFNγ Actions - MØ activation and IgG production     Th2:  Induced by -  IL-4 Cytokines produced - IL-4, IL-5, IL-13 Actions - IgE production and eosinophil activation    Th17:  Induced by -   TGFβ, IL-6, IL-1, IL-23 Cytokines produced - IL-17, IL-22 Actions - recruit monocytes & neutrophils
CD4 cell subsets:    Th1:  Induced by - IFNγ and IL-12 Cytokines produced - IFNγ Actions - MØ activation and IgG production     Th2:  Induced by - [...] Cytokines produced - [...] Actions - IgE production and eosinophil activation    Th17:  Induced by -   TGFβ, IL-6, IL-1, IL-23 Cytokines produced - IL-17, IL-22 Actions - recruit monocytes & neutrophils	CD4 cell subsets:    Th1:  Induced by - IFNγ and IL-12 Cytokines produced - IFNγ Actions - MØ activation and IgG production     Th2:  Induced by -  IL-4 Cytokines produced - IL-4, IL-5, IL-13 Actions - IgE production and eosinophil activation    Th17:  Induced by -   TGFβ, IL-6, IL-1, IL-23 Cytokines produced - IL-17, IL-22 Actions - recruit monocytes & neutrophils
CD4 cell subsets:    Th1:  Induced by - IFNγ and IL-12 Cytokines produced - IFNγ Actions - MØ activation and IgG production     Th2:  Induced by -  IL-4 Cytokines produced - IL-4, IL-5, IL-13 Actions - [...]    Th17:  Induced by -   TGFβ, IL-6, IL-1, IL-23 Cytokines produced - IL-17, IL-22 Actions - recruit monocytes & neutrophils	CD4 cell subsets:    Th1:  Induced by - IFNγ and IL-12 Cytokines produced - IFNγ Actions - MØ activation and IgG production     Th2:  Induced by -  IL-4 Cytokines produced - IL-4, IL-5, IL-13 Actions - IgE production and eosinophil activation    Th17:  Induced by -   TGFβ, IL-6, IL-1, IL-23 Cytokines produced - IL-17, IL-22 Actions - recruit monocytes & neutrophils
CD4 cell subsets:    Th1:  Induced by - IFNγ and IL-12 Cytokines produced - IFNγ Actions - MØ activation and IgG production     Th2:  Induced by -  IL-4 Cytokines produced - IL-4, IL-5, IL-13 Actions - IgE production and eosinophil activation    Th17:  Induced by - [...] Cytokines produced - [...] Actions - recruit monocytes & neutrophils	CD4 cell subsets:    Th1:  Induced by - IFNγ and IL-12 Cytokines produced - IFNγ Actions - MØ activation and IgG production     Th2:  Induced by -  IL-4 Cytokines produced - IL-4, IL-5, IL-13 Actions - IgE production and eosinophil activation    Th17:  Induced by -   TGFβ, IL-6, IL-1, IL-23 Cytokines produced - IL-17, IL-22 Actions - recruit monocytes & neutrophils
CD4 cell subsets:    Th1:  Induced by - IFNγ and IL-12 Cytokines produced - IFNγ Actions - MØ activation and IgG production     Th2:  Induced by -  IL-4 Cytokines produced - IL-4, IL-5, IL-13 Actions - IgE production and eosinophil activation    Th17:  Induced by -   TGFβ, IL-6, IL-1, IL-23 Cytokines produced - IL-17, IL-22 Actions - [...]	CD4 cell subsets:    Th1:  Induced by - IFNγ and IL-12 Cytokines produced - IFNγ Actions - MØ activation and IgG production     Th2:  Induced by -  IL-4 Cytokines produced - IL-4, IL-5, IL-13 Actions - IgE production and eosinophil activation    Th17:  Induced by -   TGFβ, IL-6, IL-1, IL-23 Cytokines produced - IL-17, IL-22 Actions - recruit monocytes & neutrophils
CD4 cell subsets:    Th[...]:  Induced by - IFNγ and IL-12 Cytokines produced - IFNγ Actions - MØ activation and IgG production     Th[...]:  Induced by -  IL-4 Cytokines produced - IL-4, IL-5, IL-13 Actions - IgE production and eosinophil activation    Th[...]:  Induced by -   TGFβ, IL-6, IL-1, IL-23 Cytokines produced - IL-17, IL-22 Actions - recruit monocytes & neutrophils	CD4 cell subsets:    Th1:  Induced by - IFNγ and IL-12 Cytokines produced - IFNγ Actions - MØ activation and IgG production     Th2:  Induced by -  IL-4 Cytokines produced - IL-4, IL-5, IL-13 Actions - IgE production and eosinophil activation    Th17:  Induced by -   TGFβ, IL-6, IL-1, IL-23 Cytokines produced - IL-17, IL-22 Actions - recruit monocytes & neutrophils
Can monocytes directly mature into activated macrophages?	YES
Dendritic cells (DC)   Part of the [...] immune system. Bind PAMPs (pathogen associated molecular peptides with Toll-like receptors)   Same chemokine receptors as [...] cells --> recruited to [...] cell areas of lymphoid organs.    Present antigen to naive Th-cell's TCR using MHC-II   Co-stimulation includes: 1) Primarily CD80/86 on DC linking to CD28 on Th-cell 2) CD40 on DC linking to CD40L on Th-cell	Dendritic cells (DC)   Part of the innate immune system. Bind PAMPs (pathogen associated molecular peptides with Toll-like receptors)   Same chemokine receptors as T cells --> recruited to T cell areas of lymphoid organs.    Present antigen to naive Th-cell's TCR using MHC-II   Co-stimulation includes: 1) Primarily CD80/86 on DC linking to CD28 on Th-cell 2) CD40 on DC linking to CD40L on Th-cell
	
Type I hypersensitivities: most common   Onset time - [...]   Immediate mediators - IgE on mast cells --> degranulation (histamine, etc)   Late mediators (more severe) - complement (C3a, C5a) and cytokines (IL-1 and TNF)   Local examples - hayfever and other allergic reactions   Systemic examples - anaphylaxis --> shock	Type I hypersensitivities: most common   Onset time - seconds - minutes   Immediate mediators - IgE on mast cells --> degranulation (histamine, etc)   Late mediators (more severe) - complement (C3a, C5a) and cytokines (IL-1 and TNF)   Local examples - hayfever and other allergic reactions   Systemic examples - anaphylaxis --> shock
Type I hypersensitivities: most common   Onset time - seconds - minutes   Immediate mediators - [...]   Late mediators (more severe) - complement (C3a, C5a) and cytokines (IL-1 and TNF)   Local examples - hayfever and other allergic reactions   Systemic examples - anaphylaxis --> shock	Type I hypersensitivities: most common   Onset time - seconds - minutes   Immediate mediators - IgE on mast cells --> degranulation (histamine, etc)   Late mediators (more severe) - complement (C3a, C5a) and cytokines (IL-1 and TNF)   Local examples - hayfever and other allergic reactions   Systemic examples - anaphylaxis --> shock
Type I hypersensitivities: most common   Onset time - seconds - minutes   Immediate mediators - IgE on mast cells --> degranulation (histamine, etc)   Late mediators (more severe) - [...]   Local examples - hayfever and other allergic reactions   Systemic examples - anaphylaxis --> shock	Type I hypersensitivities: most common   Onset time - seconds - minutes   Immediate mediators - IgE on mast cells --> degranulation (histamine, etc)   Late mediators (more severe) - complement (C3a, C5a) and cytokines (IL-1 and TNF)   Local examples - hayfever and other allergic reactions   Systemic examples - anaphylaxis --> shock
Type I hypersensitivities: most common   Onset time - seconds - minutes   Immediate mediators - IgE on mast cells --> degranulation (histamine, etc)   Late mediators (more severe) - complement (C3a, C5a) and cytokines (IL-1 and TNF)   Local examples - [...]   Systemic examples - [...]	Type I hypersensitivities: most common   Onset time - seconds - minutes   Immediate mediators - IgE on mast cells --> degranulation (histamine, etc)   Late mediators (more severe) - complement (C3a, C5a) and cytokines (IL-1 and TNF)   Local examples - hayfever and other allergic reactions   Systemic examples - anaphylaxis --> shock
	
Type II hypersensitivities:     Mechanism - [...]   Results - activation of complement, cytolysis, ADCC (NK cells) and antibody-mediated cellular dysfunctions   Examples - Goodpasteure's Syndrome, Myasthenia Gravis	Type II hypersensitivities:     Mechanism - antibodies targeted against self  (purest form of autoimmunity)   Results - activation of complement, cytolysis, ADCC (NK cells) and antibody-mediated cellular dysfunctions   Examples - Goodpasteure's Syndrome, Myasthenia Gravis
Type II hypersensitivities:     Mechanism - antibodies targeted against self  (purest form of autoimmunity)   Results - [...]   Examples - Goodpasteure's Syndrome, Myasthenia Gravis	Type II hypersensitivities:     Mechanism - antibodies targeted against self  (purest form of autoimmunity)   Results - activation of complement, cytolysis, ADCC (NK cells) and antibody-mediated cellular dysfunctions   Examples - Goodpasteure's Syndrome, Myasthenia Gravis
Type [...] hypersensitivities:     Mechanism - antibodies targeted against self  (purest form of autoimmunity)   Results - activation of complement, cytolysis, ADCC (NK cells) and antibody-mediated cellular dysfunctions   Examples - Goodpasteure's Syndrome, Myasthenia Gravis	Type II hypersensitivities:     Mechanism - antibodies targeted against self  (purest form of autoimmunity)   Results - activation of complement, cytolysis, ADCC (NK cells) and antibody-mediated cellular dysfunctions   Examples - Goodpasteure's Syndrome, Myasthenia Gravis
What is the mechanism of hyperacute graft rejection?	Preformed antibodies attach to endothelium --> complement activation --> thrombosis formation --> infarct
What type of diseases are correlated with CD25 polymorphisms?	CD25 is a suppressor T cell marker.    Correlation with multiple sclerosis and other autoimmune disease
CVID (common variable immunodeficiencies):    Epidemiology - [...]   Pathogenesis - unknown, but associated with IgA deficiency (note that they do have B cells, but they can't mature into plasma cells! - contrast with Bruton's)   Its main features are hypogammaglobulinemia and recurrent infections. Hypogammaglobulinemia manifests as a significant decrease in the levels of IgG antibodies, usually alongside IgA antibodies; IgM antibody levels are also decreased in about 50% of patients.   Presentation similar to [...]   50% increase in [...] cancer.	CVID (common variable immunodeficiencies):    Epidemiology - late onset/diagnosis of both sexes (contrast to Bruton's X-linked agammaglobulinemia)   Pathogenesis - unknown, but associated with IgA deficiency (note that they do have B cells, but they can't mature into plasma cells! - contrast with Bruton's)   Its main features are hypogammaglobulinemia and recurrent infections. Hypogammaglobulinemia manifests as a significant decrease in the levels of IgG antibodies, usually alongside IgA antibodies; IgM antibody levels are also decreased in about 50% of patients.   Presentation similar to Bruton's agammaglobulinemia, with recurrent pneumonia's, recurrent diarrhoea due to Giardia infection (IgA deficiency), failure to raise antibody levels post-vaccination   50% increase in gastric cancer.
[...]:    Epidemiology - late onset/diagnosis of both sexes (contrast to Bruton's X-linked agammaglobulinemia)   Pathogenesis - unknown, but associated with IgA deficiency (note that they do have B cells, but they can't mature into plasma cells! - contrast with Bruton's)   Its main features are hypogammaglobulinemia and recurrent infections. Hypogammaglobulinemia manifests as a significant decrease in the levels of IgG antibodies, usually alongside IgA antibodies; IgM antibody levels are also decreased in about 50% of patients.   Presentation similar to Bruton's agammaglobulinemia, with recurrent pneumonia's, recurrent diarrhoea due to Giardia infection (IgA deficiency), failure to raise antibody levels post-vaccination   50% increase in gastric cancer.	CVID (common variable immunodeficiencies):    Epidemiology - late onset/diagnosis of both sexes (contrast to Bruton's X-linked agammaglobulinemia)   Pathogenesis - unknown, but associated with IgA deficiency (note that they do have B cells, but they can't mature into plasma cells! - contrast with Bruton's)   Its main features are hypogammaglobulinemia and recurrent infections. Hypogammaglobulinemia manifests as a significant decrease in the levels of IgG antibodies, usually alongside IgA antibodies; IgM antibody levels are also decreased in about 50% of patients.   Presentation similar to Bruton's agammaglobulinemia, with recurrent pneumonia's, recurrent diarrhoea due to Giardia infection (IgA deficiency), failure to raise antibody levels post-vaccination   50% increase in gastric cancer.
CVID (common variable immunodeficiencies):    Epidemiology - late onset/diagnosis of both sexes (contrast to Bruton's X-linked agammaglobulinemia)   Pathogenesis - [...]   Its main features are hypogammaglobulinemia and recurrent infections. Hypogammaglobulinemia manifests as a significant decrease in the levels of IgG antibodies, usually alongside IgA antibodies; IgM antibody levels are also decreased in about 50% of patients.   Presentation similar to Bruton's agammaglobulinemia, with recurrent pneumonia's, recurrent diarrhoea due to Giardia infection (IgA deficiency), failure to raise antibody levels post-vaccination   50% increase in gastric cancer.	CVID (common variable immunodeficiencies):    Epidemiology - late onset/diagnosis of both sexes (contrast to Bruton's X-linked agammaglobulinemia)   Pathogenesis - unknown, but associated with IgA deficiency (note that they do have B cells, but they can't mature into plasma cells! - contrast with Bruton's)   Its main features are hypogammaglobulinemia and recurrent infections. Hypogammaglobulinemia manifests as a significant decrease in the levels of IgG antibodies, usually alongside IgA antibodies; IgM antibody levels are also decreased in about 50% of patients.   Presentation similar to Bruton's agammaglobulinemia, with recurrent pneumonia's, recurrent diarrhoea due to Giardia infection (IgA deficiency), failure to raise antibody levels post-vaccination   50% increase in gastric cancer.
SCIDs:    Most common inheritance - [...]   Most common pathogenesis - [...]   Second most common pathogenesis - [...]   Presentation - VERY susceptible to infections   Only therapy - bone marrow transplantation	SCIDs:    Most common inheritance - X-linked (so mostly males, though also some autosomal causes so don't rule out if female)   Most common pathogenesis - X-linked in SCIDX1 gene on X chromosome coding for IL-2 receptor not allowing T- & B- cells to communicate   Second most common pathogenesis - ADA deficiency (autosomal inheritance), mutation on chromosome 20 characterized by a deficiency of adenosine deaminase   Presentation - VERY susceptible to infections   Only therapy - bone marrow transplantation
SCIDs:    Most common inheritance - X-linked (so mostly males, though also some autosomal causes so don't rule out if female)   Most common pathogenesis - X-linked in SCIDX1 gene on X chromosome coding for IL-2 receptor not allowing T- & B- cells to communicate   Second most common pathogenesis - ADA deficiency (autosomal inheritance), mutation on chromosome 20 characterized by a deficiency of adenosine deaminase   Presentation - [...]   Only therapy - [...]	SCIDs:    Most common inheritance - X-linked (so mostly males, though also some autosomal causes so don't rule out if female)   Most common pathogenesis - X-linked in SCIDX1 gene on X chromosome coding for IL-2 receptor not allowing T- & B- cells to communicate   Second most common pathogenesis - ADA deficiency (autosomal inheritance), mutation on chromosome 20 characterized by a deficiency of adenosine deaminase   Presentation - VERY susceptible to infections   Only therapy - bone marrow transplantation
[...]:    Most common inheritance - X-linked (so mostly males, though also some autosomal causes so don't rule out if female)   Most common pathogenesis - X-linked in SCIDX1 gene on X chromosome coding for IL-2 receptor not allowing T- & B- cells to communicate   Second most common pathogenesis - ADA deficiency (autosomal inheritance), mutation on chromosome 20 characterized by a deficiency of adenosine deaminase   Presentation - VERY susceptible to infections   Only therapy - bone marrow transplantation	SCIDs:    Most common inheritance - X-linked (so mostly males, though also some autosomal causes so don't rule out if female)   Most common pathogenesis - X-linked in SCIDX1 gene on X chromosome coding for IL-2 receptor not allowing T- & B- cells to communicate   Second most common pathogenesis - ADA deficiency (autosomal inheritance), mutation on chromosome 20 characterized by a deficiency of adenosine deaminase   Presentation - VERY susceptible to infections   Only therapy - bone marrow transplantation
IgA deficiency:    Presentation - [...]   Pathogenesis - normal number of IgA B cells, but can't mature to plasma cells. Is commonly associated with normal B lymphocytes in peripheral blood, normal CD4+ and CD8+ T cells, and, usually, normal neutrophil and lymphocyte counts.	IgA deficiency:    Presentation - most are asymptomatic, but may present with increased susceptibility to mucosal infections (respiratory, GI and urogenital)   Pathogenesis - normal number of IgA B cells, but can't mature to plasma cells. Is commonly associated with normal B lymphocytes in peripheral blood, normal CD4+ and CD8+ T cells, and, usually, normal neutrophil and lymphocyte counts.
[...]:    Presentation - most are asymptomatic, but may present with increased susceptibility to mucosal infections (respiratory, GI and urogenital)   Pathogenesis - normal number of IgA B cells, but can't mature to plasma cells. Is commonly associated with normal B lymphocytes in peripheral blood, normal CD4+ and CD8+ T cells, and, usually, normal neutrophil and lymphocyte counts.	IgA deficiency:    Presentation - most are asymptomatic, but may present with increased susceptibility to mucosal infections (respiratory, GI and urogenital)   Pathogenesis - normal number of IgA B cells, but can't mature to plasma cells. Is commonly associated with normal B lymphocytes in peripheral blood, normal CD4+ and CD8+ T cells, and, usually, normal neutrophil and lymphocyte counts.
IgA deficiency:    Presentation - most are asymptomatic, but may present with increased susceptibility to mucosal infections (respiratory, GI and urogenital)   Pathogenesis - [...]	IgA deficiency:    Presentation - most are asymptomatic, but may present with increased susceptibility to mucosal infections (respiratory, GI and urogenital)   Pathogenesis - normal number of IgA B cells, but can't mature to plasma cells. Is commonly associated with normal B lymphocytes in peripheral blood, normal CD4+ and CD8+ T cells, and, usually, normal neutrophil and lymphocyte counts.
Paroxysmal Nocturnal Hemoglobinuria:    Inheritance - [...]   Mutated gene - [...]   3 gene products that are affected - [...], [...] and [...]   Type of hemolysis - complement-mediated Why at night (actually only paroxysmal and nocturnal about 25% of cases) - respiratory acidosis environment enhances complement-mediated lysis   Presentation: Urine - hemoglobinuria (actually, chronic hemolysis without significant hemoglobinuria is most common, but this is classic) and hemosiderinuria Chronic hemosiderinuria leads to --> iron deficiency Lost GPI anchors on platelets --> thrombosis in portal, hepatic or cerebral veins (50% fatal) Increased risk of cancer - acute myeloid leukemia, 5%   Laboratory Findings:  Serum haptoglobin - decreased  Reticulocytes - increased  Pancytopenia? YES - there is a degree of marrow failure in patients with PNH	Paroxysmal Nocturnal Hemoglobinuria:    Inheritance - NOT inherited (acquired/spontaneous mutation)   Mutated gene - GPI   3 gene products that are affected - DAF/CD55 (decay acceleration factor - prevents assembly of accelerate disassembly of C3-convertase), CD59 (inhibitor of active lysis) and C8 binding protein (all GPI-linked/anchored proteins, aka pig-tail proteins)   Type of hemolysis - complement-mediated Why at night (actually only paroxysmal and nocturnal about 25% of cases) - respiratory acidosis environment enhances complement-mediated lysis   Presentation: Urine - hemoglobinuria (actually, chronic hemolysis without significant hemoglobinuria is most common, but this is classic) and hemosiderinuria Chronic hemosiderinuria leads to --> iron deficiency Lost GPI anchors on platelets --> thrombosis in portal, hepatic or cerebral veins (50% fatal) Increased risk of cancer - acute myeloid leukemia, 5%   Laboratory Findings:  Serum haptoglobin - decreased  Reticulocytes - increased  Pancytopenia? YES - there is a degree of marrow failure in patients with PNH
Paroxysmal Nocturnal Hemoglobinuria:    Inheritance - NOT inherited (acquired/spontaneous mutation)   Mutated gene - GPI   3 gene products that are affected - DAF/CD55 (decay acceleration factor - prevents assembly of accelerate disassembly of C3-convertase), CD59 (inhibitor of active lysis) and C8 binding protein (all GPI-linked/anchored proteins, aka pig-tail proteins)   Type of hemolysis - [...] Why at night (actually only paroxysmal and nocturnal about 25% of cases) - [...]   Presentation: Urine - hemoglobinuria (actually, chronic hemolysis without significant hemoglobinuria is most common, but this is classic) and hemosiderinuria Chronic hemosiderinuria leads to --> iron deficiency Lost GPI anchors on platelets --> thrombosis in portal, hepatic or cerebral veins (50% fatal) Increased risk of cancer - acute myeloid leukemia, 5%   Laboratory Findings:  Serum haptoglobin - decreased  Reticulocytes - increased  Pancytopenia? YES - there is a degree of marrow failure in patients with PNH	Paroxysmal Nocturnal Hemoglobinuria:    Inheritance - NOT inherited (acquired/spontaneous mutation)   Mutated gene - GPI   3 gene products that are affected - DAF/CD55 (decay acceleration factor - prevents assembly of accelerate disassembly of C3-convertase), CD59 (inhibitor of active lysis) and C8 binding protein (all GPI-linked/anchored proteins, aka pig-tail proteins)   Type of hemolysis - complement-mediated Why at night (actually only paroxysmal and nocturnal about 25% of cases) - respiratory acidosis environment enhances complement-mediated lysis   Presentation: Urine - hemoglobinuria (actually, chronic hemolysis without significant hemoglobinuria is most common, but this is classic) and hemosiderinuria Chronic hemosiderinuria leads to --> iron deficiency Lost GPI anchors on platelets --> thrombosis in portal, hepatic or cerebral veins (50% fatal) Increased risk of cancer - acute myeloid leukemia, 5%   Laboratory Findings:  Serum haptoglobin - decreased  Reticulocytes - increased  Pancytopenia? YES - there is a degree of marrow failure in patients with PNH
Paroxysmal Nocturnal Hemoglobinuria:    Inheritance - NOT inherited (acquired/spontaneous mutation)   Mutated gene - GPI   3 gene products that are affected - DAF/CD55 (decay acceleration factor - prevents assembly of accelerate disassembly of C3-convertase), CD59 (inhibitor of active lysis) and C8 binding protein (all GPI-linked/anchored proteins, aka pig-tail proteins)   Type of hemolysis - complement-mediated Why at night (actually only paroxysmal and nocturnal about 25% of cases) - respiratory acidosis environment enhances complement-mediated lysis   Presentation: Urine - [...] Chronic hemosiderinuria leads to --> [...] Lost GPI anchors on platelets --> [...] Increased risk of cancer - [...]   Laboratory Findings:  Serum haptoglobin - decreased  Reticulocytes - increased  Pancytopenia? YES - there is a degree of marrow failure in patients with PNH	Paroxysmal Nocturnal Hemoglobinuria:    Inheritance - NOT inherited (acquired/spontaneous mutation)   Mutated gene - GPI   3 gene products that are affected - DAF/CD55 (decay acceleration factor - prevents assembly of accelerate disassembly of C3-convertase), CD59 (inhibitor of active lysis) and C8 binding protein (all GPI-linked/anchored proteins, aka pig-tail proteins)   Type of hemolysis - complement-mediated Why at night (actually only paroxysmal and nocturnal about 25% of cases) - respiratory acidosis environment enhances complement-mediated lysis   Presentation: Urine - hemoglobinuria (actually, chronic hemolysis without significant hemoglobinuria is most common, but this is classic) and hemosiderinuria Chronic hemosiderinuria leads to --> iron deficiency Lost GPI anchors on platelets --> thrombosis in portal, hepatic or cerebral veins (50% fatal) Increased risk of cancer - acute myeloid leukemia, 5%   Laboratory Findings:  Serum haptoglobin - decreased  Reticulocytes - increased  Pancytopenia? YES - there is a degree of marrow failure in patients with PNH
Paroxysmal Nocturnal Hemoglobinuria:    Inheritance - NOT inherited (acquired/spontaneous mutation)   Mutated gene - GPI   3 gene products that are affected - DAF/CD55 (decay acceleration factor - prevents assembly of accelerate disassembly of C3-convertase), CD59 (inhibitor of active lysis) and C8 binding protein (all GPI-linked/anchored proteins, aka pig-tail proteins)   Type of hemolysis - complement-mediated Why at night (actually only paroxysmal and nocturnal about 25% of cases) - respiratory acidosis environment enhances complement-mediated lysis   Presentation: Urine - hemoglobinuria (actually, chronic hemolysis without significant hemoglobinuria is most common, but this is classic) and hemosiderinuria Chronic hemosiderinuria leads to --> iron deficiency Lost GPI anchors on platelets --> thrombosis in portal, hepatic or cerebral veins (50% fatal) Increased risk of cancer - acute myeloid leukemia, 5%   Laboratory Findings:  Serum haptoglobin - [...]  Reticulocytes - [...]  Pancytopenia? [...]	Paroxysmal Nocturnal Hemoglobinuria:    Inheritance - NOT inherited (acquired/spontaneous mutation)   Mutated gene - GPI   3 gene products that are affected - DAF/CD55 (decay acceleration factor - prevents assembly of accelerate disassembly of C3-convertase), CD59 (inhibitor of active lysis) and C8 binding protein (all GPI-linked/anchored proteins, aka pig-tail proteins)   Type of hemolysis - complement-mediated Why at night (actually only paroxysmal and nocturnal about 25% of cases) - respiratory acidosis environment enhances complement-mediated lysis   Presentation: Urine - hemoglobinuria (actually, chronic hemolysis without significant hemoglobinuria is most common, but this is classic) and hemosiderinuria Chronic hemosiderinuria leads to --> iron deficiency Lost GPI anchors on platelets --> thrombosis in portal, hepatic or cerebral veins (50% fatal) Increased risk of cancer - acute myeloid leukemia, 5%   Laboratory Findings:  Serum haptoglobin - decreased  Reticulocytes - increased  Pancytopenia? YES - there is a degree of marrow failure in patients with PNH
Cold Agglutinin Immunohemolytic Anemia: 2nd most common form   Involved immunoglobulin - Ig[...]   Pathogenesis - [...]   Manifestation - [...]	Cold Agglutinin Immunohemolytic Anemia: 2nd most common form   Involved immunoglobulin - IgM   Pathogenesis - IgM targeted at I/i antigens, binds RBCs in fingers and ears exposed to cold --> RBCs clump    Manifestation - clumps occlude vessels and cause Raynaud phenomenon (note that complement-mediated hemolysis may also occur)
[...]: 2nd most common form   Involved immunoglobulin - IgM   Pathogenesis - IgM targeted at I/i antigens, binds RBCs in fingers and ears exposed to cold --> RBCs clump    Manifestation - clumps occlude vessels and cause Raynaud phenomenon (note that complement-mediated hemolysis may also occur)	Cold Agglutinin Immunohemolytic Anemia: 2nd most common form   Involved immunoglobulin - IgM   Pathogenesis - IgM targeted at I/i antigens, binds RBCs in fingers and ears exposed to cold --> RBCs clump    Manifestation - clumps occlude vessels and cause Raynaud phenomenon (note that complement-mediated hemolysis may also occur)
Cold Hemolytic Immunohemolytic Anemia (aka paroxysmal cold hemoglobinuria):    Involved immunoglobulin - Ig[...]   Most common antigen on RBCs that is targeted - [...]   Pathogenesis - [...]   Location of hemolysis - complement-mediated, intravascularly --> hemoglobinuria   Associated infection (cross-reactivity) - syphilis, mycoplasma, measles, mumps and flu	Cold Hemolytic Immunohemolytic Anemia (aka paroxysmal cold hemoglobinuria):    Involved immunoglobulin - IgG, Donath-Landsteiner Antibody   Most common antigen on RBCs that is targeted - P or I blood group antigen, glycosphingolipid P antigen is the primary target   Pathogenesis - IgG binds in cold extremities --> complement activated on re-warming --> acute  intravascular hemolysis   Location of hemolysis - complement-mediated, intravascularly --> hemoglobinuria   Associated infection (cross-reactivity) - syphilis, mycoplasma, measles, mumps and flu  Paroxysmal cold hemoglobinuria shares similar antibody thermal activity range as cold hemagglutinin disease
[...]:    Involved immunoglobulin - IgG, Donath-Landsteiner Antibody   Most common antigen on RBCs that is targeted - P or I blood group antigen, glycosphingolipid P antigen is the primary target   Pathogenesis - IgG binds in cold extremities --> complement activated on re-warming --> acute  intravascular hemolysis   Location of hemolysis - complement-mediated, intravascularly --> hemoglobinuria   Associated infection (cross-reactivity) - syphilis, mycoplasma, measles, mumps and flu	Cold Hemolytic Immunohemolytic Anemia (aka paroxysmal cold hemoglobinuria):    Involved immunoglobulin - IgG, Donath-Landsteiner Antibody   Most common antigen on RBCs that is targeted - P or I blood group antigen, glycosphingolipid P antigen is the primary target   Pathogenesis - IgG binds in cold extremities --> complement activated on re-warming --> acute  intravascular hemolysis   Location of hemolysis - complement-mediated, intravascularly --> hemoglobinuria   Associated infection (cross-reactivity) - syphilis, mycoplasma, measles, mumps and flu  Paroxysmal cold hemoglobinuria shares similar antibody thermal activity range as cold hemagglutinin disease
Cold Hemolytic Immunohemolytic Anemia (aka paroxysmal cold hemoglobinuria):    Involved immunoglobulin - IgG, Donath-Landsteiner Antibody   Most common antigen on RBCs that is targeted - P or I blood group antigen, glycosphingolipid P antigen is the primary target   Pathogenesis - IgG binds in cold extremities --> complement activated on re-warming --> acute  intravascular hemolysis   Location of hemolysis - [...]   Associated infection (cross-reactivity) - [...]	Cold Hemolytic Immunohemolytic Anemia (aka paroxysmal cold hemoglobinuria):    Involved immunoglobulin - IgG, Donath-Landsteiner Antibody   Most common antigen on RBCs that is targeted - P or I blood group antigen, glycosphingolipid P antigen is the primary target   Pathogenesis - IgG binds in cold extremities --> complement activated on re-warming --> acute  intravascular hemolysis   Location of hemolysis - complement-mediated, intravascularly --> hemoglobinuria   Associated infection (cross-reactivity) - syphilis, mycoplasma, measles, mumps and flu  Paroxysmal cold hemoglobinuria shares similar antibody thermal activity range as cold hemagglutinin disease
Important CD markers:    T cells - CD [...], [...], [...] and [...]  B cells - 19, 20, 21 and 23 Aka common acute lymphoblastic leukemia antigen; CALLA (found in marrow pre B cells and germinal center B cells) - CD10   NK cells - CD 16 and 56 Monocytic/myeloid - CD 13, 14, 22 and 64 Reed Sternberg cells - CD 15 and 30	Important CD markers:    T cells - CD 3, 4, 5 and 8  B cells - 19, 20, 21 and 23 Aka common acute lymphoblastic leukemia antigen; CALLA (found in marrow pre B cells and germinal center B cells) - CD10   NK cells - CD 16 and 56 Monocytic/myeloid - CD 13, 14, 22 and 64 Reed Sternberg cells - CD 15 and 30
Important CD markers:    T cells - CD 3, 4, 5 and 8  B cells - [...], [...], [...] and [...] Aka common acute lymphoblastic leukemia antigen; CALLA (found in marrow pre B cells and germinal center B cells) - CD[...]   NK cells - CD 16 and 56 Monocytic/myeloid - CD 13, 14, 22 and 64 Reed Sternberg cells - CD 15 and 30	Important CD markers:    T cells - CD 3, 4, 5 and 8  B cells - 19, 20, 21 and 23 Aka common acute lymphoblastic leukemia antigen; CALLA (found in marrow pre B cells and germinal center B cells) - CD10   NK cells - CD 16 and 56 Monocytic/myeloid - CD 13, 14, 22 and 64 Reed Sternberg cells - CD 15 and 30
Important CD markers:    T cells - CD 3, 4, 5 and 8  B cells - 19, 20, 21 and 23 Aka common acute lymphoblastic leukemia antigen; CALLA (found in marrow pre B cells and germinal center B cells) - CD10   NK cells - CD [...] and [...] Monocytic/myeloid - CD 13, 14, 22 and 64 Reed Sternberg cells - CD 15 and 30	Important CD markers:    T cells - CD 3, 4, 5 and 8  B cells - 19, 20, 21 and 23 Aka common acute lymphoblastic leukemia antigen; CALLA (found in marrow pre B cells and germinal center B cells) - CD10   NK cells - CD 16 and 56 Monocytic/myeloid - CD 13, 14, 22 and 64 Reed Sternberg cells - CD 15 and 30
Important CD markers:    T cells - CD 3, 4, 5 and 8  B cells - 19, 20, 21 and 23 Aka common acute lymphoblastic leukemia antigen; CALLA (found in marrow pre B cells and germinal center B cells) - CD10   NK cells - CD 16 and 56 Monocytic/myeloid - CD [...], [...], [...] and [...] Reed Sternberg cells - CD 15 and 30	Important CD markers:    T cells - CD 3, 4, 5 and 8  B cells - 19, 20, 21 and 23 Aka common acute lymphoblastic leukemia antigen; CALLA (found in marrow pre B cells and germinal center B cells) - CD10   NK cells - CD 16 and 56 Monocytic/myeloid - CD 13, 14, 22 and 64 Reed Sternberg cells - CD 15 and 30
Important CD markers:    T cells - CD 3, 4, 5 and 8  B cells - 19, 20, 21 and 23 Aka common acute lymphoblastic leukemia antigen; CALLA (found in marrow pre B cells and germinal center B cells) - CD10   NK cells - CD 16 and 56 Monocytic/myeloid - CD 13, 14, 22 and 64 Reed Sternberg cells - CD [...] and [...]	Important CD markers:    T cells - CD 3, 4, 5 and 8  B cells - 19, 20, 21 and 23 Aka common acute lymphoblastic leukemia antigen; CALLA (found in marrow pre B cells and germinal center B cells) - CD10   NK cells - CD 16 and 56 Monocytic/myeloid - CD 13, 14, 22 and 64 Reed Sternberg cells - CD 15 and 30
Anti-ribosomal p protein Antibodies	Small minority of patients with SLE, but highly specific for SLE, Associated wtih the presence of interstitial lung disease and lupus cerebritis
IgA Tissue - Transglutaminase antibody	Coeliac Disease. Best test for screening. 94% sensitivity and 97% specificity.
IgG Tissue - translutaminase antibody	Coeliac disease Used in patients with IgA deficiency
IgA endomysial antibody	virtually 100% specificity for Coeliac disease, only used for confirmation testing of a presumed false positive.
Anti-gliadin Antibodies	Coeliac disease, but have low sensitivity/specificity
Anti-Jo-1	Most common in polymyositis, less common in dermatomyositis, marker of idiopathic inflammatory myopathy. This antibody is a marker of interstitial lung disease. Antibody directed against histidyl tRNA sythetase. Collectively, the inflammatory myopathy associated with interstitial lung disease with Jo-1 positivity is known as the anti-synthetase syndrome (myositis (raised CK), fibrosing alveolitis, typical mechanic's hands (thickened, cracking, and peeling skin); antibodies to aminoacyl-tRNA synthetases).
Anti-SSA Ro/Anti- SSA La	Classically associated with Sjogrens Syndrome. Also seen in SLE (cause neonatal lupus - congenital heart block), and primary billiary cirrhosis (strong link)
Anti-cardiolipin Antibodies	Lupus anticoagulant Anti-cardiolipin Anti-β2-glycoprotein-I
Anticentromere Antibody	Limited Scleroderma CREST (Calcinosis, Raynauds, Esophageal dysmotility, Sclerodactyly and telangiectasia), pulmonary hypertension, considered protective against pulmonary fibrosis
Anti-Scl-70 (Topoisomerase 1) Antibody	Specific for generalized Scleroderma and associated pulmonary fibrosis, present in 10-40%
Anti-Smith	Most sensitive for SLE. Also present in poly/dermatomyositis
Anti-dsDNA	Most specific test for SLE
Anti-histone Antibodies	Drug-induced SLE HI, I Masturbate Quite Profusely - Hydralazine, Isoniazid, interferon, Methyldopa, Quinidine, Procainamide / and TNF-alpha
ANCA (+) Vasculitis	Granulomatosis with polyangitis Microscopic polyangitis Churg-strauss Rheumatoid vasculitis Drug-induced ANCA vasculitis Typically small vessel vasculitis
ANCA (-) Vasculitis	PAN, Kawasaki, Takayashu's, CNS vasculitis, Henoch-schonlein purpura, cryoglobulinemic vasculitis, most cases of hypersensitivity vasculitis, vasculitis secondary to viral infection.
Rheumatoid Factor	80% of people with RA, 90% of people with Sjogren’s
Anti-Hu	sensory neuropathy & cerebellar syndrome, assoc with small cell lung ca and neuroblastoma
Anti-Yo	cerebellar syndrome, assoc with breast and ovarian cancer
Anti-GAD antibody	stiff person syndrome / diffuse hypertonia, assoc with breast, colorectal and small cell lung carcinoma
Anti-Ri	ocular opsoclonus-myoclonus syndrome, breast and small cell lung ca
Anti-GQ1b antibodies	Miller-Fisher Syndrome (Guilliane barre variant): Ophthalmoplegia, areflexia and ataxia, antibody present in 90% of cases
Anti-Muscle-Specific Kinase Antibodies	Very specific for myasthenia gravis, for which anti-ACH receptor antibodies will be found.
Anti-myosin & Antiactomyosin	Associated with thymoma in myasthenia gravis
Anti-ACH receptor antibodies	Found in 80% of patients with myasthenia gravis
Anti-Aquaporin-4	Neuromyelitis optica
What is the HLA associated with psoriasis	DR406 & Cw6
The HLA associated with Behcet's Syndrome	B51
What is the HLA associated with Reactive arthritis	B27
What is the HLA associated with Psoriatic Arthritis	B27
What is the HLA associated with SLE	DR2, DR3
What is the HLA associated with Sjogrens	DQ2, DR3
What is the HLA associated with Alopecia Areata	DR5
Reidel's Thyroiditis is considered to be a disease on what spectrum of diseases?	IgG4-related disease
What is the classic findings in IgG4 disease (3)?	1) Tumefactive lesions composed of dense lymphoplasmacytic infiltrate rich in IgG4-positive plasma cells in any organ of the body, 2) storiform fibrosis on biopsy, and often but not always 3) raised IgG4  IgG4-related disease has been described in virtually every organ system: the biliary tree, salivary glands, periorbital tissues, kidneys, lungs, lymph nodes, meninges, aorta, breast, prostate, thyroid, pericardium, and skin. The histopathological features bear striking similarities across organs, regardless of the site of disease. IgG4-related disease is therefore analogous to sarcoidosis, another systemic disease in which diverse organ manifestations are linked by the same histopathological characteristics.   Examples include: Riedel's Thyroiditis Autoimmune pancreatitis Mediastinal and Retroperitoneal Fibrosis Periaortitis/periarteritis/Inflammatory aortic aneurysm Kuttner's Tumor (submandibular glands) & Mikulicz Syndrome (salivary and lacrimal glands) Maybe sjogren's and primary billiary cirrhosis   Diagnosis: Elevated concentrations of IgG4 in tissue and serum are helpful in diagnosing IgG4- related disease, but neither one is a specific diag- nostic marker. Biopsy: The key morphologic features of IgG4-related disease are a dense lymphoplasmacytic infiltrate that is organized in a storiform (i.e., matted and irregularly whorled) pattern, obliterative phlebitis, and a mild-to-moderate eosinophil infiltrate. In glandular organs, the infiltrate tends to aggregate around ductal structures.3 The inflam- matory lesion frequently forms a tumefactive mass that may destroy the involved organ. Destruction of osseous tissue in the craniofacial skeleton has also been described. Granulomas are also distinctly unusual.  Note: IgG4 can be absent in up to 30% of cases
Which organs/regions are primarily affected in IgG4 disease (3)	Pancreas and billiary tree (eg. autoimmune pancreatitis), salivary glands and lymph nodes (parotitis & lymphadenopathy), retroperitoneal & mediastinal fibrosis IgG4-related disease has been described in virtually every organ system: the biliary tree, salivary glands, periorbital tissues, kidneys, lungs, lymph nodes, meninges, aorta, breast, prostate, thyroid, pericardium, and skin. The histopathological features bear striking similarities across organs, regardless of the site of disease. IgG4-related disease is therefore analogous to sarcoidosis, another systemic disease in which diverse organ manifestations are linked by the same histopathological characteristics.
Marker for childhood-onset asthma	ORMDL3/GSDMB on Chromosome 17 A Large-Scale, Consortium-Based Genomewide Association Study of AsthmaMiriam F. Moffatt, D.Phil., Ivo G. Gut, Ph.D., Florence Demenais, M.D., David P. Strachan, M.D., Emmanuelle Bouzigon, M.D., Ph.D., Simon Heath, Ph.D., Erika von Mutius, M.D., Martin Farrall, F.R.C.Path., Mark Lathrop, Ph.D., and William O.C.M. Cookson, M.D., D.Phil. for the GABRIEL ConsortiumN Engl J Med 2010; 363:1211-1221September 23, 2010DOI: 10.1056/NEJMoa0906312
Anti-GBM antibody	Good-pasture's syndrome  Anti-alpha-3 subunit of type IV collagen in kidneys/lungs
Binding of C1,C2,C3 and initiation of classical complement pathway occurs with:   A) surface Ig B) urate crystals C) IgE D) CRP bound to bacterial polysaccharide E) Ag bound to IgG4	D) CRP bound to bacterial polysaccharide It is triggered by antigen-bound antibody molecules, CRP binding to microbic polysaccharides such as phosphocholine or binding of C1 to some types of structures on the target microbe.    The only antibodies capable of binding are two units of IgG or one IgM, although IgM is more effective at activating complement. IgG4 cannot bind, but the other three IgG types can. It is the binding of Fc region to the C1 component that initiates this pathway.    A is just a bad distractor
Diseases associated with HLA-DR4	Rheumatoid Arthritis (RR 4) Diabetes Mellitus type I (RR 6) RR - relative risk
Diseases associated with HLA-DR3	Autoimmune Hepatitis (RR 14) Primary Sjogren's Syndrome (RR 10) Diabetes Mellitus type I (RR 5) SLE (RR 2-3) RR - relative risk
HLA-B47	HLA associated with 21-hydroxylase deficiency (Relative Risk 15)
HLA associated with 21-hydroxylase deficiency (Relative Risk 15)	HLA-B47
Are Toll-like receptors part of the innate or adaptive immune system, and what do they recognize?	Toll-like receptors (TLRs) are a class of proteins that play a key role in the innate immune system. They are single, membrane-spanning, non-catalytic receptors usually expressed in sentinel cells such as macrophages, dendritic cells and neutrophils, that recognize structurally conserved molecules derived from microbes, also known as PAMPs. TLR 1 recognizes multiple triacyl lipopeptides in bacterial lipoprotein TLR 2 recognizes multiple lipopeptides/glycolipids and lipoteichoic acid in bacterial peptidoglycans There are approximately 13 Toll-like receptors
Lipopolysaacharide from gram (-) bacteria will activate [...] in the innate immune system	Lipopolysaacharide from gram (-) bacteria will activate Toll-like Receptors in the innate immune system
Complement, basophils and NK cells  are part of the [...] immune system	Complement, basophils and NK cells  are part of the innate immune system
The classical complement pathway begins with antibody-antigen binding, causing conformational change, which then allows C1 (and later C2 and C4) to bind, ultimately cleaving [...] which does three things:	The classical complement pathway begins with antibody-antigen binding, causing conformational change, which then allows C1 (and later C2 and C4) to bind, ultimately cleaving C3 which does three things:  1) Opsonize microorganisms 2) Degranulate mast cells releasing chemotactic & inflammatory mediators 3) Assemble the MAC attack complex
The classical complement pathway begins with antibody-antigen binding, causing conformational change, which then allows [...] to bind, ultimately cleaving C3 which does three things:	The classical complement pathway begins with antibody-antigen binding, causing conformational change, which then allows C1 (and later C2 and C4) to bind, ultimately cleaving C3 which does three things:  1) Opsonize microorganisms 2) Degranulate mast cells releasing chemotactic & inflammatory mediators 3) Assemble the MAC attack complex
The [...] complement pathway begins with antibody-antigen binding, causing conformational change, which then allows C1 (and later C2 and C4) to bind, ultimately cleaving C3 which does three things:	The classical complement pathway begins with antibody-antigen binding, causing conformational change, which then allows C1 (and later C2 and C4) to bind, ultimately cleaving C3 which does three things:  1) Opsonize microorganisms 2) Degranulate mast cells releasing chemotactic & inflammatory mediators 3) Assemble the MAC attack complex
Complement Receptor 1 or CD35 provides entry for mycobacteria and leishmania. CR1 serves as the main system for processing and clearance of complement opsonized immune complexes. It can act as a [...] regulator of the complement cascade, mediate immune adherence and phagocytosis and inhibit both the classic and alternative pathways.	Complement Receptor 1 or CD35 provides entry for mycobacteria and leishmania. CR1 serves as the main system for processing and clearance of complement opsonized immune complexes. It can act as a negative regulator of the complement cascade, mediate immune adherence and phagocytosis and inhibit both the classic and alternative pathways.
Complement Receptor 1 or CD35 provides entry for mycobacteria and leishmania. CR1 serves as the main system for processing and clearance of complement opsonized immune complexes. It can act as a negative regulator of the complement cascade, mediate immune adherence and phagocytosis and [...] both the classic and alternative pathways.	Complement Receptor 1 or CD35 provides entry for mycobacteria and leishmania. CR1 serves as the main system for processing and clearance of complement opsonized immune complexes. It can act as a negative regulator of the complement cascade, mediate immune adherence and phagocytosis and inhibit both the classic and alternative pathways.
Complement Receptor 1 or [...] provides entry for mycobacteria and leishmania. CR1 serves as the main system for processing and clearance of complement opsonized immune complexes. It can act as a negative regulator of the complement cascade, mediate immune adherence and phagocytosis and inhibit both the classic and alternative pathways.	Complement Receptor 1 or CD35 provides entry for mycobacteria and leishmania. CR1 serves as the main system for processing and clearance of complement opsonized immune complexes. It can act as a negative regulator of the complement cascade, mediate immune adherence and phagocytosis and inhibit both the classic and alternative pathways.
Complement receptor 2 or [...] found on B-cells is the portal of entry for EBV and HIV	Complement receptor 2 or CD21 found on B-cells is the portal of entry for EBV and HIV
The alternative complement pathway is initiated by [...], which is abundant in the blood plasma.	The alternative complement pathway is initiated by direct hydrolysis/splitting of C3, which is abundant in the blood plasma.   The activation of the alternative pathway may account for endotoxic shock  and some anaphylaxis-like reactions to anesthetics and other drugs. The alternative pathway is one of three complement pathways that opsonize and kill pathogens. The pathway is triggered when the C3b protein directly binds a microbe. It can also be triggered by foreign materials and damaged tissues.
Where will you find a T-cell with both CD4 and CD8 cell markings?	Thymus
Describe locations of T and B cells in spleen and lymph nodes Lymph Node T-cells - [...] Lymph Node B-cells - [...] Spleen T-cells - [...] Spleen B-cells - [...]	Describe locations of T and B cells in spleen and lymph nodes Lymph Node T-cells - paracortex Lymph Node B-cells - cortex Spleen T-cells - Inner region Spleen B-cells - Outer region, primary and secondary follicles
Describe locations of T and B cells in spleen and lymph nodes Lymph Node [...] - paracortex Lymph Node [...] - cortex Spleen [...] - Inner region Spleen [...] - Outer region, primary and secondary follicles	Describe locations of T and B cells in spleen and lymph nodes Lymph Node T-cells - paracortex Lymph Node B-cells - cortex Spleen T-cells - Inner region Spleen B-cells - Outer region, primary and secondary follicles
An [...] binds to an antibody and generates and immune response, but a [...] can bind to antibodies & T-cells but do not generate an immune response unless it is coupled to a carrier.	An immunogen binds to an antibody and generates and immune response, but a haptens can bind to antibodies & T-cells but do not generate an immune response unless it is coupled to a carrier.
[...] cross-link  MHC class II to the β chain of the TcR  outside the usual peptide binding site activating up to 20% of T-cells.	Super-antigens cross-link  MHC class II to the β chain of the TcR  outside the usual peptide binding site activating up to 20% of T-cells.   TcR - t-cell receptor
Super-antigens cross-link [...] outside [...] activating up to 20% of T-cells.	Super-antigens cross-link  MHC class II to the β chain of the TcR  outside the usual peptide binding site activating up to 20% of T-cells.   TcR - t-cell receptor
MHC Molecules[...] binds with TCR & CD8+ costimulation  on T-cells and [...] binds with the TCR & CD4+ costimulation on T-cells [...] has 1 intracellular domain and [...] has 2 intracellular domains	MHC MoleculesMHC class I binds with TCR & CD8+ costimulation  on T-cells and MHC class II binds with the TCR & CD4+ costimulation on T-cells MHC I has 1 intracellular domain and MHC II has 2 intracellular domains
MHC MoleculesMHC class I binds with [...]  on T-cells and MHC class II binds with the [...] on T-cells MHC I has 1 intracellular domain and MHC II has 2 intracellular domains	MHC MoleculesMHC class I binds with TCR & CD8+ costimulation  on T-cells and MHC class II binds with the TCR & CD4+ costimulation on T-cells MHC I has 1 intracellular domain and MHC II has 2 intracellular domains
True or False MHC in man: 1) The genetic loci is found on chromosome 15 - [...] 2) Human complement components C2 and C4 are coded by MHC genes - [...] 3) Class II MHC molecules have β2 subunits like class I - [...]	True or False MHC in man: 1) The genetic loci is found on chromosome 15 - False 2) Human complement components C2 and C4 are coded by MHC genes - True 3) Class II MHC molecules have β2 subunits like class I - False  Genetic loci of MHC is found on the short arm of chromosome 6 in humans. Class I MHC molecules have β2 subunits so can only be recognised by CD8 co-receptors. Class II MHC molecules have no β2 subunits so can be recognised by CD4 co-receptors.
Anergy occurs when an antigen is presented to a T-cell in the [...] but does not stimulate the [...], leading to the cell becoming ineffective.	Anergy occurs when an antigen is presented to a T-cell in the MHC II complex but does not stimulate the co-receptor CD28, leading to the cell becoming ineffective.  Proper antigen presentation to T lymphocytes by antigen presenting cell (APC) occurs by displaying the antigen on its MHC II complex and also activates T cell´s co-stimulatory receptors, T lymphocytes undergo productive response. However, when T cells interacts with an antigen not presented by the APCs, that is very probably not the antigen that an immune response should be held against, the T cell undergoes anergy.    T cell anergy is a tolerance mechanism in which the lymphocyte is intrinsically functionally inactivated following an antigen encounter, but remains alive for an extended period of time in a hyporesponsive state.
[...] occurs when an antigen is presented to a T-cell in the MHC II complex but does not stimulate the co-receptor CD28, leading to the cell becoming ineffective.	Anergy occurs when an antigen is presented to a T-cell in the MHC II complex but does not stimulate the co-receptor CD28, leading to the cell becoming ineffective.  Proper antigen presentation to T lymphocytes by antigen presenting cell (APC) occurs by displaying the antigen on its MHC II complex and also activates T cell´s co-stimulatory receptors, T lymphocytes undergo productive response. However, when T cells interacts with an antigen not presented by the APCs, that is very probably not the antigen that an immune response should be held against, the T cell undergoes anergy.    T cell anergy is a tolerance mechanism in which the lymphocyte is intrinsically functionally inactivated following an antigen encounter, but remains alive for an extended period of time in a hyporesponsive state.
B-cell Activation   Contains MHC class [...]   Activation typically occurs in: Secondary lympoid organs ie, spleen and lymph nodes Most common cell is the Follicular B-cell (aka B2 cell) and produces the majority of the high affinity antibody   Two types of activation is possible: 1) T-cell dependant activation & 2) T-cell independant activation.   B-cell receptor (2 parts): 1) membrane-bound immunoglobulin molecule of one isotype (IgD, IgM, IgA or IgE), 2) A heterodimer called Ig-α/Ig-β (CD79), bound together by disulfide bridges   B-cell co-receptor complex is composed of: CD19, CD81 & CD21 (binds to the C3 fragment of complement)	B-cell Activation   Contains MHC class I & II   Activation typically occurs in: Secondary lympoid organs ie, spleen and lymph nodes Most common cell is the Follicular B-cell (aka B2 cell) and produces the majority of the high affinity antibody   Two types of activation is possible: 1) T-cell dependant activation & 2) T-cell independant activation.   B-cell receptor (2 parts): 1) membrane-bound immunoglobulin molecule of one isotype (IgD, IgM, IgA or IgE), 2) A heterodimer called Ig-α/Ig-β (CD79), bound together by disulfide bridges   B-cell co-receptor complex is composed of: CD19, CD81 & CD21 (binds to the C3 fragment of complement)          B-cells can become activated through the interaction with a B-cell Toll-like receptor and then become activated after phagocytosis and presentation of the antigen to a Th cell via it's MHC class II receptor.
B-cell Activation   Contains MHC class I & II   Activation typically occurs in: Secondary lympoid organs ie, spleen and lymph nodes Most common cell is the [...] and produces the majority of the high affinity antibody   Two types of activation is possible: 1) T-cell dependant activation & 2) T-cell independant activation.   B-cell receptor (2 parts): 1) membrane-bound immunoglobulin molecule of one isotype (IgD, IgM, IgA or IgE), 2) A heterodimer called Ig-α/Ig-β (CD79), bound together by disulfide bridges   B-cell co-receptor complex is composed of: CD19, CD81 & CD21 (binds to the C3 fragment of complement)	B-cell Activation   Contains MHC class I & II   Activation typically occurs in: Secondary lympoid organs ie, spleen and lymph nodes Most common cell is the Follicular B-cell (aka B2 cell) and produces the majority of the high affinity antibody   Two types of activation is possible: 1) T-cell dependant activation & 2) T-cell independant activation.   B-cell receptor (2 parts): 1) membrane-bound immunoglobulin molecule of one isotype (IgD, IgM, IgA or IgE), 2) A heterodimer called Ig-α/Ig-β (CD79), bound together by disulfide bridges   B-cell co-receptor complex is composed of: CD19, CD81 & CD21 (binds to the C3 fragment of complement)          B-cells can become activated through the interaction with a B-cell Toll-like receptor and then become activated after phagocytosis and presentation of the antigen to a Th cell via it's MHC class II receptor.
B-cell Activation   Contains MHC class I & II   Activation typically occurs in: [...] Most common cell is the Follicular B-cell (aka B2 cell) and produces the majority of the high affinity antibody   Two types of activation is possible: 1) T-cell dependant activation & 2) T-cell independant activation.   B-cell receptor (2 parts): 1) membrane-bound immunoglobulin molecule of one isotype (IgD, IgM, IgA or IgE), 2) A heterodimer called Ig-α/Ig-β (CD79), bound together by disulfide bridges   B-cell co-receptor complex is composed of: CD19, CD81 & CD21 (binds to the C3 fragment of complement)	B-cell Activation   Contains MHC class I & II   Activation typically occurs in: Secondary lympoid organs ie, spleen and lymph nodes Most common cell is the Follicular B-cell (aka B2 cell) and produces the majority of the high affinity antibody   Two types of activation is possible: 1) T-cell dependant activation & 2) T-cell independant activation.   B-cell receptor (2 parts): 1) membrane-bound immunoglobulin molecule of one isotype (IgD, IgM, IgA or IgE), 2) A heterodimer called Ig-α/Ig-β (CD79), bound together by disulfide bridges   B-cell co-receptor complex is composed of: CD19, CD81 & CD21 (binds to the C3 fragment of complement)          B-cells can become activated through the interaction with a B-cell Toll-like receptor and then become activated after phagocytosis and presentation of the antigen to a Th cell via it's MHC class II receptor.
B-cell Activation   Contains MHC class I & II   Activation typically occurs in: Secondary lympoid organs ie, spleen and lymph nodes Most common cell is the Follicular B-cell (aka B2 cell) and produces the majority of the high affinity antibody   Two types of activation is possible: 1) T-cell dependant activation & 2) T-cell independant activation.   B-cell receptor (2 parts): [...]   B-cell co-receptor complex is composed of: CD19, CD81 & CD21 (binds to the C3 fragment of complement)	B-cell Activation   Contains MHC class I & II   Activation typically occurs in: Secondary lympoid organs ie, spleen and lymph nodes Most common cell is the Follicular B-cell (aka B2 cell) and produces the majority of the high affinity antibody   Two types of activation is possible: 1) T-cell dependant activation & 2) T-cell independant activation.   B-cell receptor (2 parts): 1) membrane-bound immunoglobulin molecule of one isotype (IgD, IgM, IgA or IgE), 2) A heterodimer called Ig-α/Ig-β (CD79), bound together by disulfide bridges   B-cell co-receptor complex is composed of: CD19, CD81 & CD21 (binds to the C3 fragment of complement)          B-cells can become activated through the interaction with a B-cell Toll-like receptor and then become activated after phagocytosis and presentation of the antigen to a Th cell via it's MHC class II receptor.
B-cell Activation   Contains MHC class I & II   Activation typically occurs in: Secondary lympoid organs ie, spleen and lymph nodes Most common cell is the Follicular B-cell (aka B2 cell) and produces the majority of the high affinity antibody   Two types of activation is possible: 1) T-cell dependant activation & 2) T-cell independant activation.   B-cell receptor (2 parts): 1) membrane-bound immunoglobulin molecule of one isotype (IgD, IgM, IgA or IgE), 2) A heterodimer called Ig-α/Ig-β (CD79), bound together by disulfide bridges   B-cell co-receptor complex is composed of: [...], [...] & [...]	B-cell Activation   Contains MHC class I & II   Activation typically occurs in: Secondary lympoid organs ie, spleen and lymph nodes Most common cell is the Follicular B-cell (aka B2 cell) and produces the majority of the high affinity antibody   Two types of activation is possible: 1) T-cell dependant activation & 2) T-cell independant activation.   B-cell receptor (2 parts): 1) membrane-bound immunoglobulin molecule of one isotype (IgD, IgM, IgA or IgE), 2) A heterodimer called Ig-α/Ig-β (CD79), bound together by disulfide bridges   B-cell co-receptor complex is composed of: CD19, CD81 & CD21 (binds to the C3 fragment of complement)          B-cells can become activated through the interaction with a B-cell Toll-like receptor and then become activated after phagocytosis and presentation of the antigen to a Th cell via it's MHC class II receptor.
Cell type / induced by / produces / Causes / targets / diseases[...]/ [...] / IFN-gamma / activates macrophages and IgG production / intracellular microbes / chronic inflammatory autoimmune diseases  [...] / [...] / IL-4, IL-5 & IL-13 / Stimulation of IgE production and activation of mast cells and eosinophils / helminthic parasites / allergies [...] / [...] / IL-17, IL-22, chemokines / recruitment of neutrophils and macrophages / chronic inflammatory autoimmune diseases	Cell type / induced by / produces / Causes / targets / diseasesTH1 / IFN-gamma & IL-12 / IFN-gamma / activates macrophages and IgG production / intracellular microbes / chronic inflammatory autoimmune diseases  TH2 / IL-4 / IL-4, IL-5 & IL-13 / Stimulation of IgE production and activation of mast cells and eosinophils / helminthic parasites / allergies TH17 / TGF-beta, IL-6, IL-1, IL-23 / IL-17, IL-22, chemokines / recruitment of neutrophils and macrophages / chronic inflammatory autoimmune diseases
Cell type / induced by / produces / Causes / targets / diseasesTH1 / IFN-gamma & IL-12 / [...] / activates macrophages and IgG production / intracellular microbes / chronic inflammatory autoimmune diseases  TH2 / IL-4 / [...] / Stimulation of IgE production and activation of mast cells and eosinophils / helminthic parasites / allergies TH17 / TGF-beta, IL-6, IL-1, IL-23 / [...] / recruitment of neutrophils and macrophages / chronic inflammatory autoimmune diseases	Cell type / induced by / produces / Causes / targets / diseasesTH1 / IFN-gamma & IL-12 / IFN-gamma / activates macrophages and IgG production / intracellular microbes / chronic inflammatory autoimmune diseases  TH2 / IL-4 / IL-4, IL-5 & IL-13 / Stimulation of IgE production and activation of mast cells and eosinophils / helminthic parasites / allergies TH17 / TGF-beta, IL-6, IL-1, IL-23 / IL-17, IL-22, chemokines / recruitment of neutrophils and macrophages / chronic inflammatory autoimmune diseases
Cell type / induced by / produces / Causes / targets / diseasesTH1 / IFN-gamma & IL-12 / IFN-gamma / [...] / intracellular microbes / chronic inflammatory autoimmune diseases  TH2 / IL-4 / IL-4, IL-5 & IL-13 / [...] / helminthic parasites / allergies TH17 / TGF-beta, IL-6, IL-1, IL-23 / IL-17, IL-22, chemokines / [...] / chronic inflammatory autoimmune diseases	Cell type / induced by / produces / Causes / targets / diseasesTH1 / IFN-gamma & IL-12 / IFN-gamma / activates macrophages and IgG production / intracellular microbes / chronic inflammatory autoimmune diseases  TH2 / IL-4 / IL-4, IL-5 & IL-13 / Stimulation of IgE production and activation of mast cells and eosinophils / helminthic parasites / allergies TH17 / TGF-beta, IL-6, IL-1, IL-23 / IL-17, IL-22, chemokines / recruitment of neutrophils and macrophages / chronic inflammatory autoimmune diseases
Type II hypersensitivities:     Mechanism - antibodies targeted against self  (purest form of autoimmunity)   Results - activation of complement, cytolysis, ADCC (NK cells) and antibody-mediated cellular dysfunctions   Examples - [...]	Type II hypersensitivities:     Mechanism - antibodies targeted against self  (purest form of autoimmunity)   Results - activation of complement, cytolysis, ADCC (NK cells) and antibody-mediated cellular dysfunctions   Examples - Goodpasteure's Syndrome, Myasthenia Gravis
Can encapsulated bacteria (N. Meningitidis, Salmonella, H. Influenzae) be phagocytosed?	No Must be opsonized by IgG. Receptors for IgG and CR1 (complement receptor 1) are used to aid in phagocytosis
Secretory IgA production against specific mucosal antigens is dependent on the sampling by [...], processing by underlying antigen-presenting cells such as [...], T cell activation, and ultimately [...] in gut-associated lymphoid tissue (GALT), mesenteric lymph nodes, and possibly neighboring lamina propria. Secretory IgA primary acts through receptor blockade and immune exclusion.	Secretory IgA production against specific mucosal antigens is dependent on the sampling by Peyer's patch M cells, processing by underlying antigen-presenting cells such as dendritic cells (DCs), T cell activation, and ultimately B cell class switch recombination in gut-associated lymphoid tissue (GALT), mesenteric lymph nodes, and possibly neighboring lamina propria. Secretory IgA primary acts through receptor blockade and immune exclusion.   SIgA promotes the clearance of antigens and pathogenic microorganisms from the intestinal lumen by blocking their access to epithelial receptors, entrapping them in mucus, and facilitating their removal by peristaltic and mucociliary activities.
Secretory IgA production against specific mucosal antigens is dependent on the sampling by Peyer's patch M cells, processing by underlying antigen-presenting cells such as dendritic cells (DCs), T cell activation, and ultimately B cell class switch recombination in [...]. Secretory IgA primary acts through receptor blockade and immune exclusion.	Secretory IgA production against specific mucosal antigens is dependent on the sampling by Peyer's patch M cells, processing by underlying antigen-presenting cells such as dendritic cells (DCs), T cell activation, and ultimately B cell class switch recombination in gut-associated lymphoid tissue (GALT), mesenteric lymph nodes, and possibly neighboring lamina propria. Secretory IgA primary acts through receptor blockade and immune exclusion.   SIgA promotes the clearance of antigens and pathogenic microorganisms from the intestinal lumen by blocking their access to epithelial receptors, entrapping them in mucus, and facilitating their removal by peristaltic and mucociliary activities.
Secretory IgA production against specific mucosal antigens is dependent on the sampling by Peyer's patch M cells, processing by underlying antigen-presenting cells such as dendritic cells (DCs), T cell activation, and ultimately B cell class switch recombination in gut-associated lymphoid tissue (GALT), mesenteric lymph nodes, and possibly neighboring lamina propria. Secretory IgA primary acts through [...] and immune exclusion.	Secretory IgA production against specific mucosal antigens is dependent on the sampling by Peyer's patch M cells, processing by underlying antigen-presenting cells such as dendritic cells (DCs), T cell activation, and ultimately B cell class switch recombination in gut-associated lymphoid tissue (GALT), mesenteric lymph nodes, and possibly neighboring lamina propria. Secretory IgA primary acts through receptor blockade and immune exclusion.   SIgA promotes the clearance of antigens and pathogenic microorganisms from the intestinal lumen by blocking their access to epithelial receptors, entrapping them in mucus, and facilitating their removal by peristaltic and mucociliary activities.
The constant region of IgM contains binding sites for [...]	The constant region of IgM contains binding sites for C1q
The [...] of IgM contains binding sites for C1q	The constant region of IgM contains binding sites for C1q
T-cell receptors and antibodies are formed by [...] while in the primary lymphoid organs (Thymus for T-cells and bone marrow for B-cells. This allows for the near infinate types of antibodies and T-cell receptors.	T-cell receptors and antibodies are formed by somatic recombination (VDJ recombination) while in the primary lymphoid organs (Thymus for T-cells and bone marrow for B-cells. This allows for the near infinate types of antibodies and T-cell receptors.
T-cell receptors and antibodies are formed by somatic recombination (VDJ recombination) while in the [...]. This allows for the near infinate types of antibodies and T-cell receptors.	T-cell receptors and antibodies are formed by somatic recombination (VDJ recombination) while in the primary lymphoid organs (Thymus for T-cells and bone marrow for B-cells. This allows for the near infinate types of antibodies and T-cell receptors.
Describe the two types of downregulatory cytokines 1) [...] 2) [...]	Describe the two types of downregulatory cytokines 1) IL-10 2) TGF-beta
A [...] determines the destiny of a Th0 cell.   If it secretes TGF-beta it becomes a: Treg If it secretes IL-5 it becomes a: Th2 If it secretes Interferon-gamma it becomes a: Th1	A dendritic cell or antigen presenting cell determines the destiny of a Th0 cell.   If it secretes TGF-beta it becomes a: Treg If it secretes IL-5 it becomes a: Th2 If it secretes Interferon-gamma it becomes a: Th1
A dendritic cell or antigen presenting cell determines the destiny of a Th0 cell.   If it secretes [...] it becomes a: Treg If it secretes [...] it becomes a: Th2 If it secretes [...] it becomes a: Th1	A dendritic cell or antigen presenting cell determines the destiny of a Th0 cell.   If it secretes TGF-beta it becomes a: Treg If it secretes IL-5 it becomes a: Th2 If it secretes Interferon-gamma it becomes a: Th1
A dendritic cell or antigen presenting cell determines the destiny of a Th0 cell.   If it secretes TGF-beta it becomes a: [...] If it secretes IL-5 it becomes a: [...] If it secretes Interferon-gamma it becomes a: [...]	A dendritic cell or antigen presenting cell determines the destiny of a Th0 cell.   If it secretes TGF-beta it becomes a: Treg If it secretes IL-5 it becomes a: Th2 If it secretes Interferon-gamma it becomes a: Th1
A dendritic cell or antigen presenting cell determines the destiny of a [...].   If it secretes TGF-beta it becomes a: Treg If it secretes IL-5 it becomes a: Th2 If it secretes Interferon-gamma it becomes a: Th1	A dendritic cell or antigen presenting cell determines the destiny of a Th0 cell.   If it secretes TGF-beta it becomes a: Treg If it secretes IL-5 it becomes a: Th2 If it secretes Interferon-gamma it becomes a: Th1
Naturally occuring Tregs are [...](+), [...](+) and [...](+) They inhibit T-cell proliferation by production of IL-10 and TGF-beta	Naturally occuring Tregs are CD4(+), CD25(+) and FoxP3(+) They inhibit T-cell proliferation by production of IL-10 and TGF-beta  Flow cytometry of CD4(+) and CD25(+) cells
Naturally occuring Tregs are CD4(+), CD25(+) and FoxP3(+) They inhibit T-cell proliferation by production of [...]	Naturally occuring Tregs are CD4(+), CD25(+) and FoxP3(+) They inhibit T-cell proliferation by production of IL-10 and TGF-beta  Flow cytometry of CD4(+) and CD25(+) cells
This is most likely the flow cytometry for [...]	This is most likely the flow cytometry for CLL
AML with the chromosome translocation [...], also known as acute promyelocytic leukemia is strongly associated with the clinical presentation of [...]. Often, a blood film will show auer rods. It is particularly responsive to therapy with all-transretinoic acid.	AML with the chromosome translocation t(15;17), also known as acute promyelocytic leukemia is strongly associated with the clinical presentation of DIC. Often, a blood film will show auer rods. It is particularly responsive to therapy with all-transretinoic acid.   An estimated 85% of patients diagnosed with APL will develop DIC.   In acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL), TF is secreted directly into the bloodstream by the membranes of the promyelocyte blast cells, which initiates the coagulation cascade causing DIC. Although DIC is common in APL, APL itself is a rare form of acute myelogenous leukemia (AML), subtype M3. APL accounts for approximately 10%-15% of adult patients diagnosed with AML. Cytogenetically, APL is identified by a translocation between chromosomes 15 and 17 (t[15, 17]), which results in the formation of promyelocytic leukemia gene and retinoic acid receptor a.   Induction treatment for the patient with APL consists of cytarabine for seven days, idarubicin or daunorubicin for three days, and all-transretinoic acid.
AML with the chromosome translocation t(15;17), also known as [...] is strongly associated with the clinical presentation of DIC. Often, a blood film will show [...]. It is particularly responsive to therapy with all-transretinoic acid.	AML with the chromosome translocation t(15;17), also known as acute promyelocytic leukemia is strongly associated with the clinical presentation of DIC. Often, a blood film will show auer rods. It is particularly responsive to therapy with all-transretinoic acid.   An estimated 85% of patients diagnosed with APL will develop DIC.   In acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL), TF is secreted directly into the bloodstream by the membranes of the promyelocyte blast cells, which initiates the coagulation cascade causing DIC. Although DIC is common in APL, APL itself is a rare form of acute myelogenous leukemia (AML), subtype M3. APL accounts for approximately 10%-15% of adult patients diagnosed with AML. Cytogenetically, APL is identified by a translocation between chromosomes 15 and 17 (t[15, 17]), which results in the formation of promyelocytic leukemia gene and retinoic acid receptor a.   Induction treatment for the patient with APL consists of cytarabine for seven days, idarubicin or daunorubicin for three days, and all-transretinoic acid.
AML with the chromosome translocation t(15;17), also known as acute promyelocytic leukemia is strongly associated with the clinical presentation of DIC. Often, a blood film will show auer rods. It is particularly responsive to therapy with [...].	AML with the chromosome translocation t(15;17), also known as acute promyelocytic leukemia is strongly associated with the clinical presentation of DIC. Often, a blood film will show auer rods. It is particularly responsive to therapy with all-transretinoic acid.   An estimated 85% of patients diagnosed with APL will develop DIC.   In acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL), TF is secreted directly into the bloodstream by the membranes of the promyelocyte blast cells, which initiates the coagulation cascade causing DIC. Although DIC is common in APL, APL itself is a rare form of acute myelogenous leukemia (AML), subtype M3. APL accounts for approximately 10%-15% of adult patients diagnosed with AML. Cytogenetically, APL is identified by a translocation between chromosomes 15 and 17 (t[15, 17]), which results in the formation of promyelocytic leukemia gene and retinoic acid receptor a.   Induction treatment for the patient with APL consists of cytarabine for seven days, idarubicin or daunorubicin for three days, and all-transretinoic acid.
C4d indicates what?	Antibody-mediated rejection of transplanted organ. Requires rituximab or plasmapheresis
HLA-DQB1	Narcolepsy
Narcolepsy	HLA-DQB1
Bruton's agammaglobulinemia:    Inheritance - [...]   Epidemiology - [...]   Pathogenesis - mutation in Btk (Burton's tyrosine kinase) --> defective rearrangement of heavy chains --> failure of B cells to mature thus absence of mature B cells (CD19 & CD20 cells not present) --> no antibodies (no IgA --> susceptible to giardia)    Presentation - increased susceptibility to enteroviruses (polio and coxsackie viruses)   Immune against - EBV (no mature B-cells)   Therapy to expand life - IVIG every 3-4 weeks for life to produce passive immunity	Bruton's agammaglobulinemia:    Inheritance - X-linked   Epidemiology - males around 6 months (until then, still have maternal IgG)   Pathogenesis - mutation in Btk (Burton's tyrosine kinase) --> defective rearrangement of heavy chains --> failure of B cells to mature thus absence of mature B cells (CD19 & CD20 cells not present) --> no antibodies (no IgA --> susceptible to giardia)    Presentation - increased susceptibility to enteroviruses (polio and coxsackie viruses)   Immune against - EBV (no mature B-cells)   Therapy to expand life - IVIG every 3-4 weeks for life to produce passive immunity
[...]:    Inheritance - X-linked   Epidemiology - males around 6 months (until then, still have maternal IgG)   Pathogenesis - [...] --> [...] --> [...] --> [...]   Presentation - increased susceptibility to enteroviruses (polio and coxsackie viruses)   Immune against - EBV (no mature B-cells)   Therapy to expand life - IVIG every 3-4 weeks for life to produce passive immunity	Bruton's agammaglobulinemia:    Inheritance - X-linked   Epidemiology - males around 6 months (until then, still have maternal IgG)   Pathogenesis - mutation in Btk (Burton's tyrosine kinase) --> defective rearrangement of heavy chains --> failure of B cells to mature thus absence of mature B cells (CD19 & CD20 cells not present) --> no antibodies (no IgA --> susceptible to giardia)    Presentation - increased susceptibility to enteroviruses (polio and coxsackie viruses)   Immune against - EBV (no mature B-cells)   Therapy to expand life - IVIG every 3-4 weeks for life to produce passive immunity
Bruton's agammaglobulinemia:    Inheritance - X-linked   Epidemiology - males around 6 months (until then, still have maternal IgG)   Pathogenesis - mutation in Btk (Burton's tyrosine kinase) --> defective rearrangement of heavy chains --> failure of B cells to mature thus absence of mature B cells (CD19 & CD20 cells not present) --> no antibodies (no IgA --> susceptible to giardia)    Presentation - [...]   Immune against - [...]   Therapy to expand life - IVIG every 3-4 weeks for life to produce passive immunity	Bruton's agammaglobulinemia:    Inheritance - X-linked   Epidemiology - males around 6 months (until then, still have maternal IgG)   Pathogenesis - mutation in Btk (Burton's tyrosine kinase) --> defective rearrangement of heavy chains --> failure of B cells to mature thus absence of mature B cells (CD19 & CD20 cells not present) --> no antibodies (no IgA --> susceptible to giardia)    Presentation - increased susceptibility to enteroviruses (polio and coxsackie viruses)   Immune against - EBV (no mature B-cells)   Therapy to expand life - IVIG every 3-4 weeks for life to produce passive immunity
Bruton's agammaglobulinemia:    Inheritance - X-linked   Epidemiology - males around 6 months (until then, still have maternal IgG)   Pathogenesis - mutation in Btk (Burton's tyrosine kinase) --> defective rearrangement of heavy chains --> failure of B cells to mature thus absence of mature B cells (CD19 & CD20 cells not present) --> no antibodies (no IgA --> susceptible to giardia)    Presentation - increased susceptibility to enteroviruses (polio and coxsackie viruses)   Immune against - EBV (no mature B-cells)   Therapy to expand life - [...]	Bruton's agammaglobulinemia:    Inheritance - X-linked   Epidemiology - males around 6 months (until then, still have maternal IgG)   Pathogenesis - mutation in Btk (Burton's tyrosine kinase) --> defective rearrangement of heavy chains --> failure of B cells to mature thus absence of mature B cells (CD19 & CD20 cells not present) --> no antibodies (no IgA --> susceptible to giardia)    Presentation - increased susceptibility to enteroviruses (polio and coxsackie viruses)   Immune against - EBV (no mature B-cells)   Therapy to expand life - IVIG every 3-4 weeks for life to produce passive immunity
Anti-200/100	Necrotic statin myopathy
Necrotic statin myopathy	Anti-200/100
Anti-PM-Sci nucleolar protein complex	Muscle-associated antibody (PM/DM, systemic sclerosis)
Muscle-associated antibody (PM/DM, systemic sclerosis)	Anti-PM-Sci nucleolar protein complex
Seven features of Bechet's disease and diagnostic test	1) Oral apthous ulcers 2) Genital Ulcers 3) Anterior Uveitis 4) Erythema Nodosum 5) Pericarditis/Pleurisy 6) Recurrent Thromboembolism 7) Arthralgia   Pathergy Reaction >2mm 24/48hours post skin prick
Dendritic cells (DC)   Part of the innate immune system. Bind PAMPs (pathogen associated molecular peptides with [...])   Same chemokine receptors as T cells --> recruited to T cell areas of lymphoid organs.    Present antigen to naive Th-cell's TCR using MHC-II   Co-stimulation includes: 1) Primarily CD80/86 on DC linking to CD28 on Th-cell 2) CD40 on DC linking to CD40L on Th-cell	Dendritic cells (DC)   Part of the innate immune system. Bind PAMPs (pathogen associated molecular peptides with Toll-like receptors)   Same chemokine receptors as T cells --> recruited to T cell areas of lymphoid organs.    Present antigen to naive Th-cell's TCR using MHC-II   Co-stimulation includes: 1) Primarily CD80/86 on DC linking to CD28 on Th-cell 2) CD40 on DC linking to CD40L on Th-cell
Dendritic cells (DC)   Part of the innate immune system. Bind PAMPs (pathogen associated molecular peptides with Toll-like receptors)   Same chemokine receptors as T cells --> recruited to T cell areas of lymphoid organs.    Present antigen to naive Th-cell's TCR using [...]   Co-stimulation includes: 1) Primarily CD80/86 on DC linking to CD28 on Th-cell 2) CD40 on DC linking to CD40L on Th-cell	Dendritic cells (DC)   Part of the innate immune system. Bind PAMPs (pathogen associated molecular peptides with Toll-like receptors)   Same chemokine receptors as T cells --> recruited to T cell areas of lymphoid organs.    Present antigen to naive Th-cell's TCR using MHC-II   Co-stimulation includes: 1) Primarily CD80/86 on DC linking to CD28 on Th-cell 2) CD40 on DC linking to CD40L on Th-cell
Dendritic cells (DC)   Part of the innate immune system. Bind PAMPs (pathogen associated molecular peptides with Toll-like receptors)   Same chemokine receptors as T cells --> recruited to T cell areas of lymphoid organs.    Present antigen to naive Th-cell's [...] using MHC-II   Co-stimulation includes: 1) Primarily CD80/86 on DC linking to CD28 on Th-cell 2) CD40 on DC linking to CD40L on Th-cell	Dendritic cells (DC)   Part of the innate immune system. Bind PAMPs (pathogen associated molecular peptides with Toll-like receptors)   Same chemokine receptors as T cells --> recruited to T cell areas of lymphoid organs.    Present antigen to naive Th-cell's TCR using MHC-II   Co-stimulation includes: 1) Primarily CD80/86 on DC linking to CD28 on Th-cell 2) CD40 on DC linking to CD40L on Th-cell
Dendritic cells (DC)   Part of the innate immune system. Bind PAMPs (pathogen associated molecular peptides with Toll-like receptors)   Same chemokine receptors as T cells --> recruited to T cell areas of lymphoid organs.    Present antigen to naive Th-cell's TCR using MHC-II   Co-stimulation includes: 1) Primarily [...] on DC linking to CD28 on Th-cell 2) [...] on DC linking to CD40L on Th-cell	Dendritic cells (DC)   Part of the innate immune system. Bind PAMPs (pathogen associated molecular peptides with Toll-like receptors)   Same chemokine receptors as T cells --> recruited to T cell areas of lymphoid organs.    Present antigen to naive Th-cell's TCR using MHC-II   Co-stimulation includes: 1) Primarily CD80/86 on DC linking to CD28 on Th-cell 2) CD40 on DC linking to CD40L on Th-cell
Dendritic cells (DC)   Part of the innate immune system. Bind PAMPs (pathogen associated molecular peptides with Toll-like receptors)   Same chemokine receptors as T cells --> recruited to T cell areas of lymphoid organs.    Present antigen to naive Th-cell's TCR using MHC-II   Co-stimulation includes: 1) Primarily CD80/86 on DC linking to [...] on Th-cell 2) CD40 on DC linking to [...] on Th-cell	Dendritic cells (DC)   Part of the innate immune system. Bind PAMPs (pathogen associated molecular peptides with Toll-like receptors)   Same chemokine receptors as T cells --> recruited to T cell areas of lymphoid organs.    Present antigen to naive Th-cell's TCR using MHC-II   Co-stimulation includes: 1) Primarily CD80/86 on DC linking to CD28 on Th-cell 2) CD40 on DC linking to CD40L on Th-cell
Which amyloid protein is universally present in all amyloid deposits?	Serum Amyloid P Makes up 15% dry weight of all amyloidosis depsits
What is Mannose-binding lecthin (MBL) and what is it a part of?	MBL's function is pattern recognition in the first line of defense in the pre-immune host. MBL recognizes carbohydrate patterns, found on the surface of a large number of pathogenic micro-organisms, including bacteria, viruses, protozoa and fungi. Binding of MBL to a micro-organism results in activation of the lectin pathway of the complement system.
Cause of ACE-inhibitor induced Angioedema	Defect in bradykinin catabolism  The clinical features of angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor angioedema are related to elevated levels of bradykinin, an inflammatory vasoactive peptide which leads to vasodilation of blood vessels. ACE inhibitors block the effects of the enzyme ACE, also known as kininase II, and impact both the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone pathway (RAA) and the degradation of bradykinin.
Most common primary immunodeficiency syndrome in adults	CVID - characterised by absent IgG and low levels of IgA and/or IgM The most common clinically significant antibody deficiency disorder in adults is common variable immune deficiency (CVID). IgA deficiency is more common, though most often not clinically significant. CVID is often associated with recurrent bacterial pneumonia, often with bronchiectasis; persistent gastrointestinal symptoms, suggestive of inflammatory bowel disease or celiac disease; and autoimmunity. As many as 20% of patients with CVID develop granulomas in the lungs, liver and spleen that can be confused with sarcoidosis.
