#separator:tab
#html:false
Which antiepileptic drug is contraindicated in absence seizures?	Carbamazepine (increased seizure frequency via enhancement of neuronal activity in the thalamocortical circuitry)
Pregnancy and epilepsy:    Teratogenic antiepileptics (5) -  [...] [...]  [...] [...] [...] [...] [...] (least teratogenic because it binds to plasma proteins)   Supplementation:  Folate (note that many antiepileptics have antifolate effects) - to prevent neural tube defects  Vitamin K (cofactor for synthesis of clotting factors) - during the last 2 weeks of pregnancy and at birth to the neonate   * Note that the potential harm of uncontrolled seizures on the mother and fetus is considered greater than the teratogenic effects of antiepileptic drugs, though the patient should be on monotherapt at the lowest effective does (especially during the first semester) *	Pregnancy and epilepsy:    Teratogenic antiepileptics (5) -  Valproate - 9.3% Phenobarbital - 5.5%  Topiramate - 4.2% Carbamazepine - 3.0% Phenytoin - 2.9% Levetiracetam - 2.9% Lamotrigine - 2.0% (least teratogenic because it binds to plasma proteins)   Supplementation:  Folate (note that many antiepileptics have antifolate effects) - to prevent neural tube defects  Vitamin K (cofactor for synthesis of clotting factors) - during the last 2 weeks of pregnancy and at birth to the neonate   * Note that the potential harm of uncontrolled seizures on the mother and fetus is considered greater than the teratogenic effects of antiepileptic drugs, though the patient should be on monotherapt at the lowest effective does (especially during the first semester) *  The North American AED Pregnancy Registry showed that between 1997 and 2011, the risk of major malformations was 9.3% for valproic acid, 5.5% for phenobarbitone, 4.2% for topiramate, 3.0% for carbamazepine, 2.9% for phenytoin, 2.4% for levetiracetam and 2.0% for lamotrigine.
Pregnancy and epilepsy:    Teratogenic antiepileptics (5) -  Valproate - 9.3% Phenobarbital - 5.5%  Topiramate - 4.2% Carbamazepine - 3.0% Phenytoin - 2.9% Levetiracetam - 2.9% Lamotrigine - 2.0% (least teratogenic because it binds to plasma proteins)   Supplementation:  [...] - to prevent neural tube defects  [...] - during the last 2 weeks of pregnancy and at birth to the neonate   * Note that the potential harm of uncontrolled seizures on the mother and fetus is considered greater than the teratogenic effects of antiepileptic drugs, though the patient should be on monotherapt at the lowest effective does (especially during the first semester) *	Pregnancy and epilepsy:    Teratogenic antiepileptics (5) -  Valproate - 9.3% Phenobarbital - 5.5%  Topiramate - 4.2% Carbamazepine - 3.0% Phenytoin - 2.9% Levetiracetam - 2.9% Lamotrigine - 2.0% (least teratogenic because it binds to plasma proteins)   Supplementation:  Folate (note that many antiepileptics have antifolate effects) - to prevent neural tube defects  Vitamin K (cofactor for synthesis of clotting factors) - during the last 2 weeks of pregnancy and at birth to the neonate   * Note that the potential harm of uncontrolled seizures on the mother and fetus is considered greater than the teratogenic effects of antiepileptic drugs, though the patient should be on monotherapt at the lowest effective does (especially during the first semester) *  The North American AED Pregnancy Registry showed that between 1997 and 2011, the risk of major malformations was 9.3% for valproic acid, 5.5% for phenobarbitone, 4.2% for topiramate, 3.0% for carbamazepine, 2.9% for phenytoin, 2.4% for levetiracetam and 2.0% for lamotrigine.
[...], [...], [...], and [...] can significantly antagonize the effects of oral contraceptives via enzyme induction.    Thus, patients should be advised to consider alternative forms of contraception.	Carbamazepine, phenytoin, phenobarbital, and topiramate can significantly antagonize the effects of oral contraceptives via enzyme induction.    Thus, patients should be advised to consider alternative forms of contraception.
Therapeutic uses of antiepileptic drugs:    Tonic-clonic seizures (grand mal):  Preferred - [...] and [...] Alternative - [...]     Abscence seizures (petit mal):  Preferred - ethosuximide Alternative - valproate and clonazepam    Juvenile Myoclonic Epilepsy:  Preferred - valproate Alternative - clonazepam    Simple partial seizures:  Preferred - Lamotrigine    Complex partial seizures:  Preferred - Valproate   Status epilepticus:  Preferred - lorazepam, diazepam or fosphenytoin Alternative - phenobarbital   Febrile seizures - diazepam	Therapeutic uses of antiepileptic drugs:    Tonic-clonic seizures (grand mal):  Preferred - valproate and lamotrigine Alternative - carbamazepine     Abscence seizures (petit mal):  Preferred - ethosuximide Alternative - valproate and clonazepam    Juvenile Myoclonic Epilepsy:  Preferred - valproate Alternative - clonazepam    Simple partial seizures:  Preferred - Lamotrigine    Complex partial seizures:  Preferred - Valproate   Status epilepticus:  Preferred - lorazepam, diazepam or fosphenytoin Alternative - phenobarbital   Febrile seizures - diazepam
Therapeutic uses of antiepileptic drugs:    Tonic-clonic seizures (grand mal):  Preferred - valproate and lamotrigine Alternative - carbamazepine     Abscence seizures (petit mal):  Preferred - [...] Alternative - [...] and [...]    Juvenile Myoclonic Epilepsy:  Preferred - valproate Alternative - clonazepam    Simple partial seizures:  Preferred - Lamotrigine    Complex partial seizures:  Preferred - Valproate   Status epilepticus:  Preferred - lorazepam, diazepam or fosphenytoin Alternative - phenobarbital   Febrile seizures - diazepam	Therapeutic uses of antiepileptic drugs:    Tonic-clonic seizures (grand mal):  Preferred - valproate and lamotrigine Alternative - carbamazepine     Abscence seizures (petit mal):  Preferred - ethosuximide Alternative - valproate and clonazepam    Juvenile Myoclonic Epilepsy:  Preferred - valproate Alternative - clonazepam    Simple partial seizures:  Preferred - Lamotrigine    Complex partial seizures:  Preferred - Valproate   Status epilepticus:  Preferred - lorazepam, diazepam or fosphenytoin Alternative - phenobarbital   Febrile seizures - diazepam
Therapeutic uses of antiepileptic drugs:    Tonic-clonic seizures (grand mal):  Preferred - valproate and lamotrigine Alternative - carbamazepine     Abscence seizures (petit mal):  Preferred - ethosuximide Alternative - valproate and clonazepam    Juvenile Myoclonic Epilepsy:  Preferred - [...] Alternative - [...]    Simple partial seizures:  Preferred - Lamotrigine    Complex partial seizures:  Preferred - Valproate   Status epilepticus:  Preferred - lorazepam, diazepam or fosphenytoin Alternative - phenobarbital   Febrile seizures - diazepam	Therapeutic uses of antiepileptic drugs:    Tonic-clonic seizures (grand mal):  Preferred - valproate and lamotrigine Alternative - carbamazepine     Abscence seizures (petit mal):  Preferred - ethosuximide Alternative - valproate and clonazepam    Juvenile Myoclonic Epilepsy:  Preferred - valproate Alternative - clonazepam    Simple partial seizures:  Preferred - Lamotrigine    Complex partial seizures:  Preferred - Valproate   Status epilepticus:  Preferred - lorazepam, diazepam or fosphenytoin Alternative - phenobarbital   Febrile seizures - diazepam
Therapeutic uses of antiepileptic drugs:    Tonic-clonic seizures (grand mal):  Preferred - valproate and lamotrigine Alternative - carbamazepine     Abscence seizures (petit mal):  Preferred - ethosuximide Alternative - valproate and clonazepam    Juvenile Myoclonic Epilepsy:  Preferred - valproate Alternative - clonazepam    Simple partial seizures:  Preferred - [...]    Complex partial seizures:  Preferred - [...]   Status epilepticus:  Preferred - lorazepam, diazepam or fosphenytoin Alternative - phenobarbital   Febrile seizures - diazepam	Therapeutic uses of antiepileptic drugs:    Tonic-clonic seizures (grand mal):  Preferred - valproate and lamotrigine Alternative - carbamazepine     Abscence seizures (petit mal):  Preferred - ethosuximide Alternative - valproate and clonazepam    Juvenile Myoclonic Epilepsy:  Preferred - valproate Alternative - clonazepam    Simple partial seizures:  Preferred - Lamotrigine    Complex partial seizures:  Preferred - Valproate   Status epilepticus:  Preferred - lorazepam, diazepam or fosphenytoin Alternative - phenobarbital   Febrile seizures - diazepam
Therapeutic uses of antiepileptic drugs:    Tonic-clonic seizures (grand mal):  Preferred - valproate and lamotrigine Alternative - carbamazepine     Abscence seizures (petit mal):  Preferred - ethosuximide Alternative - valproate and clonazepam    Juvenile Myoclonic Epilepsy:  Preferred - valproate Alternative - clonazepam    Simple partial seizures:  Preferred - Lamotrigine    Complex partial seizures:  Preferred - Valproate   Status epilepticus:  Preferred - [...], [...] or [...] Alternative - [...]   Febrile seizures - [...]	Therapeutic uses of antiepileptic drugs:    Tonic-clonic seizures (grand mal):  Preferred - valproate and lamotrigine Alternative - carbamazepine     Abscence seizures (petit mal):  Preferred - ethosuximide Alternative - valproate and clonazepam    Juvenile Myoclonic Epilepsy:  Preferred - valproate Alternative - clonazepam    Simple partial seizures:  Preferred - Lamotrigine    Complex partial seizures:  Preferred - Valproate   Status epilepticus:  Preferred - lorazepam, diazepam or fosphenytoin Alternative - phenobarbital   Febrile seizures - diazepam
Prodrugs:    [...] - phenytoin prodrug that can be administered intramuscularly without inducing necrosis (used to control seizures during neurosurgery and status epilepticus).    [...] - carbamazepine prodrug with an impproved toxicity profile (no epoxide metabolites, less microsomal enzyme induction, but comparable antiepileptic efficacy)   [...] - valproate prodrug with better GI tolerance.     [...] - phenobarbital prodrug.	Prodrugs:    Fosphenytoin - phenytoin prodrug that can be administered intramuscularly without inducing necrosis (used to control seizures during neurosurgery and status epilepticus).    Oxcarbazepine - carbamazepine prodrug with an impproved toxicity profile (no epoxide metabolites, less microsomal enzyme induction, but comparable antiepileptic efficacy)   Divalproex sodium - valproate prodrug with better GI tolerance.     Primidone - phenobarbital prodrug.
Huntington disease:    Inheritance - [...]   Triplet repeat - [...]   Normal amount of repeats - [...]   Pathological effect of repeats - mutated huntingtin molecul aggregates the normal huntingtin molecules --> toxic for GABA-containing striatal neuron --> increased inhibition of subthalamic nucleus   Presentation - jerky, hyperkinetic, sometimes dystonic movements (chorea) + cognitive defect	Huntington disease:    Inheritance - autosomal dominant   Triplet repeat - CAG (polyglutamine)   Normal amount of repeats - 11-34   Pathological effect of repeats - mutated huntingtin molecul aggregates the normal huntingtin molecules --> toxic for GABA-containing striatal neuron --> increased inhibition of subthalamic nucleus   Presentation - jerky, hyperkinetic, sometimes dystonic movements (chorea) + cognitive defect
Huntington disease:    Inheritance - autosomal dominant   Triplet repeat - CAG (polyglutamine)   Normal amount of repeats - 11-34   Pathological effect of repeats - [...]   Presentation - [...]	Huntington disease:    Inheritance - autosomal dominant   Triplet repeat - CAG (polyglutamine)   Normal amount of repeats - 11-34   Pathological effect of repeats - mutated huntingtin molecul aggregates the normal huntingtin molecules --> toxic for GABA-containing striatal neuron --> increased inhibition of subthalamic nucleus   Presentation - jerky, hyperkinetic, sometimes dystonic movements (chorea) + cognitive defect
Myasthenia gravis:    Relevant history - [...]   Type of hypersensitivity - II   Pathophysiology - anti-AChR antibodies --> complement fixation and injury to synaptic membrane --> increased internalization and degradation, and competitive inhibition of binding of acetylcholine   Presentation - first ptosis and double vision, then generalized fluctuating muscle weakness   Mechanism of eventual death - respiratory failure   Management: Mild - anticholinesterases (pyridostigmine, neostigmine, and edrophonium) Moderate - Add immunomodulatory therapy, begining with steroids and/or azathioprine Severe/Refractive - Cyclosporin, methotrexate or cyclophosphamide Myasthenic Crisis - IVIG is superior to plasmapheresis Thymectomy Indication - Is indicated for all patients with thymoma and for patients aged 10-55 years without thymoma but with generalized MG	Myasthenia gravis:    Relevant history - thymic hyperplasia or thymoma (recall that there are ectopic germinal centers in the thymus)   Type of hypersensitivity - II   Pathophysiology - anti-AChR antibodies --> complement fixation and injury to synaptic membrane --> increased internalization and degradation, and competitive inhibition of binding of acetylcholine   Presentation - first ptosis and double vision, then generalized fluctuating muscle weakness   Mechanism of eventual death - respiratory failure   Management: Mild - anticholinesterases (pyridostigmine, neostigmine, and edrophonium) Moderate - Add immunomodulatory therapy, begining with steroids and/or azathioprine Severe/Refractive - Cyclosporin, methotrexate or cyclophosphamide Myasthenic Crisis - IVIG is superior to plasmapheresis Thymectomy Indication - Is indicated for all patients with thymoma and for patients aged 10-55 years without thymoma but with generalized MG
Myasthenia gravis:    Relevant history - thymic hyperplasia or thymoma (recall that there are ectopic germinal centers in the thymus)   Type of hypersensitivity - II   Pathophysiology - anti-AChR antibodies --> complement fixation and injury to synaptic membrane --> increased internalization and degradation, and competitive inhibition of binding of acetylcholine   Presentation - [...]   Mechanism of eventual death - [...]   Management: Mild - anticholinesterases (pyridostigmine, neostigmine, and edrophonium) Moderate - Add immunomodulatory therapy, begining with steroids and/or azathioprine Severe/Refractive - Cyclosporin, methotrexate or cyclophosphamide Myasthenic Crisis - IVIG is superior to plasmapheresis Thymectomy Indication - Is indicated for all patients with thymoma and for patients aged 10-55 years without thymoma but with generalized MG	Myasthenia gravis:    Relevant history - thymic hyperplasia or thymoma (recall that there are ectopic germinal centers in the thymus)   Type of hypersensitivity - II   Pathophysiology - anti-AChR antibodies --> complement fixation and injury to synaptic membrane --> increased internalization and degradation, and competitive inhibition of binding of acetylcholine   Presentation - first ptosis and double vision, then generalized fluctuating muscle weakness   Mechanism of eventual death - respiratory failure   Management: Mild - anticholinesterases (pyridostigmine, neostigmine, and edrophonium) Moderate - Add immunomodulatory therapy, begining with steroids and/or azathioprine Severe/Refractive - Cyclosporin, methotrexate or cyclophosphamide Myasthenic Crisis - IVIG is superior to plasmapheresis Thymectomy Indication - Is indicated for all patients with thymoma and for patients aged 10-55 years without thymoma but with generalized MG
[...]:    Relevant history - thymic hyperplasia or thymoma (recall that there are ectopic germinal centers in the thymus)   Type of hypersensitivity - II   Pathophysiology - anti-AChR antibodies --> complement fixation and injury to synaptic membrane --> increased internalization and degradation, and competitive inhibition of binding of acetylcholine   Presentation - first ptosis and double vision, then generalized fluctuating muscle weakness   Mechanism of eventual death - respiratory failure   Management: Mild - anticholinesterases (pyridostigmine, neostigmine, and edrophonium) Moderate - Add immunomodulatory therapy, begining with steroids and/or azathioprine Severe/Refractive - Cyclosporin, methotrexate or cyclophosphamide Myasthenic Crisis - IVIG is superior to plasmapheresis Thymectomy Indication - Is indicated for all patients with thymoma and for patients aged 10-55 years without thymoma but with generalized MG	Myasthenia gravis:    Relevant history - thymic hyperplasia or thymoma (recall that there are ectopic germinal centers in the thymus)   Type of hypersensitivity - II   Pathophysiology - anti-AChR antibodies --> complement fixation and injury to synaptic membrane --> increased internalization and degradation, and competitive inhibition of binding of acetylcholine   Presentation - first ptosis and double vision, then generalized fluctuating muscle weakness   Mechanism of eventual death - respiratory failure   Management: Mild - anticholinesterases (pyridostigmine, neostigmine, and edrophonium) Moderate - Add immunomodulatory therapy, begining with steroids and/or azathioprine Severe/Refractive - Cyclosporin, methotrexate or cyclophosphamide Myasthenic Crisis - IVIG is superior to plasmapheresis Thymectomy Indication - Is indicated for all patients with thymoma and for patients aged 10-55 years without thymoma but with generalized MG
Myasthenia gravis:    Relevant history - thymic hyperplasia or thymoma (recall that there are ectopic germinal centers in the thymus)   Type of hypersensitivity - [...]   Pathophysiology - [...]   Presentation - first ptosis and double vision, then generalized fluctuating muscle weakness   Mechanism of eventual death - respiratory failure   Management: Mild - anticholinesterases (pyridostigmine, neostigmine, and edrophonium) Moderate - Add immunomodulatory therapy, begining with steroids and/or azathioprine Severe/Refractive - Cyclosporin, methotrexate or cyclophosphamide Myasthenic Crisis - IVIG is superior to plasmapheresis Thymectomy Indication - Is indicated for all patients with thymoma and for patients aged 10-55 years without thymoma but with generalized MG	Myasthenia gravis:    Relevant history - thymic hyperplasia or thymoma (recall that there are ectopic germinal centers in the thymus)   Type of hypersensitivity - II   Pathophysiology - anti-AChR antibodies --> complement fixation and injury to synaptic membrane --> increased internalization and degradation, and competitive inhibition of binding of acetylcholine   Presentation - first ptosis and double vision, then generalized fluctuating muscle weakness   Mechanism of eventual death - respiratory failure   Management: Mild - anticholinesterases (pyridostigmine, neostigmine, and edrophonium) Moderate - Add immunomodulatory therapy, begining with steroids and/or azathioprine Severe/Refractive - Cyclosporin, methotrexate or cyclophosphamide Myasthenic Crisis - IVIG is superior to plasmapheresis Thymectomy Indication - Is indicated for all patients with thymoma and for patients aged 10-55 years without thymoma but with generalized MG
Myasthenia gravis:    Relevant history - thymic hyperplasia or thymoma (recall that there are ectopic germinal centers in the thymus)   Type of hypersensitivity - II   Pathophysiology - anti-AChR antibodies --> complement fixation and injury to synaptic membrane --> increased internalization and degradation, and competitive inhibition of binding of acetylcholine   Presentation - first ptosis and double vision, then generalized fluctuating muscle weakness   Mechanism of eventual death - respiratory failure   Management: Mild - [...] Moderate - [...] Severe/Refractive - [...] Myasthenic Crisis - [...] Thymectomy Indication - [...]	Myasthenia gravis:    Relevant history - thymic hyperplasia or thymoma (recall that there are ectopic germinal centers in the thymus)   Type of hypersensitivity - II   Pathophysiology - anti-AChR antibodies --> complement fixation and injury to synaptic membrane --> increased internalization and degradation, and competitive inhibition of binding of acetylcholine   Presentation - first ptosis and double vision, then generalized fluctuating muscle weakness   Mechanism of eventual death - respiratory failure   Management: Mild - anticholinesterases (pyridostigmine, neostigmine, and edrophonium) Moderate - Add immunomodulatory therapy, begining with steroids and/or azathioprine Severe/Refractive - Cyclosporin, methotrexate or cyclophosphamide Myasthenic Crisis - IVIG is superior to plasmapheresis Thymectomy Indication - Is indicated for all patients with thymoma and for patients aged 10-55 years without thymoma but with generalized MG
Inclusion-Body Myositis:    Epidemiology - women, mostly over 50    Presentation - distal upper limb muscle weakness and quadriceps weakness   Pathogenesis - [...]   Diagnostic histopathology - [...]	Inclusion-Body Myositis:    Epidemiology - women, mostly over 50    Presentation - distal upper limb muscle weakness and quadriceps weakness   Pathogenesis - T-cell mediated autoimmune disorder, CD8+ T cells and macrophages in a 2:1 ratio   Diagnostic histopathology - inclusion bodies in muscle (some stain with congo red - ie. amyloid positive), non-necrotic myofibers invaded by mononuclear inflammatory cells
[...]:    Epidemiology - women, mostly over 50    Presentation - distal upper limb muscle weakness and quadriceps weakness   Pathogenesis - T-cell mediated autoimmune disorder, CD8+ T cells and macrophages in a 2:1 ratio   Diagnostic histopathology - inclusion bodies in muscle (some stain with congo red - ie. amyloid positive), non-necrotic myofibers invaded by mononuclear inflammatory cells	Inclusion-Body Myositis:    Epidemiology - women, mostly over 50    Presentation - distal upper limb muscle weakness and quadriceps weakness   Pathogenesis - T-cell mediated autoimmune disorder, CD8+ T cells and macrophages in a 2:1 ratio   Diagnostic histopathology - inclusion bodies in muscle (some stain with congo red - ie. amyloid positive), non-necrotic myofibers invaded by mononuclear inflammatory cells
Inclusion-Body Myositis:    Epidemiology - [...]   Presentation - [...]   Pathogenesis - T-cell mediated autoimmune disorder, CD8+ T cells and macrophages in a 2:1 ratio   Diagnostic histopathology - inclusion bodies in muscle (some stain with congo red - ie. amyloid positive), non-necrotic myofibers invaded by mononuclear inflammatory cells	Inclusion-Body Myositis:    Epidemiology - women, mostly over 50    Presentation - distal upper limb muscle weakness and quadriceps weakness   Pathogenesis - T-cell mediated autoimmune disorder, CD8+ T cells and macrophages in a 2:1 ratio   Diagnostic histopathology - inclusion bodies in muscle (some stain with congo red - ie. amyloid positive), non-necrotic myofibers invaded by mononuclear inflammatory cells
Huntington’s disease:     Pathogenesis -  [...]   Presentation - abnormal choreo-arthetoid movements (dance-like movements) of the limbs, rhythmic movements of tongue and face, and mental deterioration that leads to personality disorders, psychosis, and dementia	Huntington’s disease:     Pathogenesis -  Gross atrophy of the caudate nucleus and putamen is accompanied by selective neuronal loss and astrogliosis. In particular, degeneration of GABA neurons in the striatum --> excessive dopaminergic activity in the basal ganglia (opposite of Parkinson's disease)   Presentation - abnormal choreo-arthetoid movements (dance-like movements) of the limbs, rhythmic movements of tongue and face, and mental deterioration that leads to personality disorders, psychosis, and dementia
Huntington’s disease:     Pathogenesis -  Gross atrophy of the caudate nucleus and putamen is accompanied by selective neuronal loss and astrogliosis. In particular, degeneration of GABA neurons in the striatum --> excessive dopaminergic activity in the basal ganglia (opposite of Parkinson's disease)   Presentation - [...]	Huntington’s disease:     Pathogenesis -  Gross atrophy of the caudate nucleus and putamen is accompanied by selective neuronal loss and astrogliosis. In particular, degeneration of GABA neurons in the striatum --> excessive dopaminergic activity in the basal ganglia (opposite of Parkinson's disease)   Presentation - abnormal choreo-arthetoid movements (dance-like movements) of the limbs, rhythmic movements of tongue and face, and mental deterioration that leads to personality disorders, psychosis, and dementia
Multiple sclerosis:    Strongest Risk factor: [...]   Uhtoff's Symptoms: Exercise-induced or any symptoms related to increased heat eg. shower, sauna & squash.   Predictors of worse outcomes: Males, high rates of early relapses, older age at onset, pyramidal/brainstem/cerebellar weakness effects, primary progressive   Pathogenesis - [...]   Diagnostic Criteria - No longer a need to have separate MRIs run; Dissemination in time demonstrated by: Simultaneous presence of asymptomatic gadolinium-enhancing and nonenhancing lesions at any time. Dissemination in space: 1 or more T2 lesion in at least 2 of 4 MS-typical regions of the CNS (periventricular, juxtacortical, infratentorial, or spinal cord)	Multiple sclerosis:    Strongest Risk factor: 1st degree relative gives 20x relative risk; 5% absolute risk   Uhtoff's Symptoms: Exercise-induced or any symptoms related to increased heat eg. shower, sauna & squash.   Predictors of worse outcomes: Males, high rates of early relapses, older age at onset, pyramidal/brainstem/cerebellar weakness effects, primary progressive   Pathogenesis - demyelination of neurons in the CNS (most likely viral mimetic / autoimmune mediated) --> inflammation --> disruption of nerve transmission and plaque formation   Diagnostic Criteria - No longer a need to have separate MRIs run; Dissemination in time demonstrated by: Simultaneous presence of asymptomatic gadolinium-enhancing and nonenhancing lesions at any time. Dissemination in space: 1 or more T2 lesion in at least 2 of 4 MS-typical regions of the CNS (periventricular, juxtacortical, infratentorial, or spinal cord)
Multiple sclerosis:    Strongest Risk factor: 1st degree relative gives 20x relative risk; 5% absolute risk   Uhtoff's Symptoms: [...]   Predictors of worse outcomes: Males, high rates of early relapses, older age at onset, pyramidal/brainstem/cerebellar weakness effects, primary progressive   Pathogenesis - demyelination of neurons in the CNS (most likely viral mimetic / autoimmune mediated) --> inflammation --> disruption of nerve transmission and plaque formation   Diagnostic Criteria - No longer a need to have separate MRIs run; Dissemination in time demonstrated by: Simultaneous presence of asymptomatic gadolinium-enhancing and nonenhancing lesions at any time. Dissemination in space: 1 or more T2 lesion in at least 2 of 4 MS-typical regions of the CNS (periventricular, juxtacortical, infratentorial, or spinal cord)	Multiple sclerosis:    Strongest Risk factor: 1st degree relative gives 20x relative risk; 5% absolute risk   Uhtoff's Symptoms: Exercise-induced or any symptoms related to increased heat eg. shower, sauna & squash.   Predictors of worse outcomes: Males, high rates of early relapses, older age at onset, pyramidal/brainstem/cerebellar weakness effects, primary progressive   Pathogenesis - demyelination of neurons in the CNS (most likely viral mimetic / autoimmune mediated) --> inflammation --> disruption of nerve transmission and plaque formation   Diagnostic Criteria - No longer a need to have separate MRIs run; Dissemination in time demonstrated by: Simultaneous presence of asymptomatic gadolinium-enhancing and nonenhancing lesions at any time. Dissemination in space: 1 or more T2 lesion in at least 2 of 4 MS-typical regions of the CNS (periventricular, juxtacortical, infratentorial, or spinal cord)
Pharmacotherapy for multiple sclerosis:    [...] - GABA(b) agonist (muscle relaxant)   [...] - synthetic glucocorticoid (immunosuppresion)   [...] - antiviral effects + enhances myelin regrowth   [...] - sphingosine-1-phosphate receptor modulator, which sequesters lymphocytes in lymph nodes, preventing them from contributing to an autoimmune reaction   [...] - pyrimidine synthesis inhibitor   [...] - Mechanism of action unclear, DMF is thought to have immunomodulatory properties without significant immunosuppression   [...] - Composed of four amino acids found in myelin basic protein, it is thought to function as a decoy to the immune system.   [...] - Alpha 4-integrin antagonist, selective adhesion molecule inhibitor	Pharmacotherapy for multiple sclerosis:    Baclofen - GABA(b) agonist (muscle relaxant)   Prednisone - synthetic glucocorticoid (immunosuppresion)   Interferon beta 1a & 1b (Rebif) - antiviral effects + enhances myelin regrowth   Fingolimod - sphingosine-1-phosphate receptor modulator, which sequesters lymphocytes in lymph nodes, preventing them from contributing to an autoimmune reaction   Teriflunomide - pyrimidine synthesis inhibitor   Dimethyl Fumarate - Mechanism of action unclear, DMF is thought to have immunomodulatory properties without significant immunosuppression   Glatiramer Acetate (Copaxone) - Composed of four amino acids found in myelin basic protein, it is thought to function as a decoy to the immune system.   Natalizumab (Tysabri) - Alpha 4-integrin antagonist, selective adhesion molecule inhibitor
Pharmacotherapy for multiple sclerosis:    Baclofen - [...]   Prednisone - [...]   Interferon beta 1a & 1b (Rebif) - [...]   Fingolimod - [...]   Teriflunomide - [...]   Dimethyl Fumarate - [...]   Glatiramer Acetate (Copaxone) - [...]   Natalizumab (Tysabri) - [...]	Pharmacotherapy for multiple sclerosis:    Baclofen - GABA(b) agonist (muscle relaxant)   Prednisone - synthetic glucocorticoid (immunosuppresion)   Interferon beta 1a & 1b (Rebif) - antiviral effects + enhances myelin regrowth   Fingolimod - sphingosine-1-phosphate receptor modulator, which sequesters lymphocytes in lymph nodes, preventing them from contributing to an autoimmune reaction   Teriflunomide - pyrimidine synthesis inhibitor   Dimethyl Fumarate - Mechanism of action unclear, DMF is thought to have immunomodulatory properties without significant immunosuppression   Glatiramer Acetate (Copaxone) - Composed of four amino acids found in myelin basic protein, it is thought to function as a decoy to the immune system.   Natalizumab (Tysabri) - Alpha 4-integrin antagonist, selective adhesion molecule inhibitor
Causes of Autonomic Neuropathy	HAIR SPUD: Hepatic, amyloidosis, infections (HIV, chagas, leprosy), RA, SLE, polyneuropathy, uremia, diabetes
What does a reduction in FVC in the supine position when compared to the upright position indicate?	Diaphragmatic dysfunction In erect position, abdominal contents use gravitational pull. an FVC that decreases more than 15% in the supine position or that is less than 75% of predicted in the supine position should be considered as a positive indicator of diaphragmatic dysfunction. Can be used in monitoring progress of ALS patients.
What is lipohyalinosis?	Vessel wall thickening and a resultant reduction in luminal diameter. Result of hypertension, induced in the acute stage by fibrinoid necrosis. Cause of lacunar strokes.
Which semicircular canal is most affected in BPPV?	posterior semicircular canal
Primary clinical features of Freidrich's Ataxia	1) Gait ataxia (sensory and cerebellar) 2) Motor deficits: profound distal weakness of the lower limbs (upper limbs after patient has become bedridden) with areflexia and distal atrophy 3) Cranial nerve dysfunction: dysphagia, dysarthria, visual impairment (25%have optic atrophy), deafness 4) Cerebellar and sensory deficits: loss of joint position and vibration (light touch and temperature also) 5) Associated features: hypertrophic cardiomyopathy in 50%, diabetes in 20%, bilateral pes cavus or varus deformities, kyphoscoliosis. Gait ataxia manifests as progressively slow and clumsy walking, which often begins after normal walking has developed. Loss of ambulation typically occurs 15 years after disease onset. Average age of onset and 95% of patients are wheelchair bound by age 45 years.
Primary Pathophysiology of Freidrich's Ataxia	Spinal chord and peripheral nerves: Demyelination of posterior columns and corticospinal, ventral, posterior spinocerebellar tracts and dorsal root ganglion
What are the primary features of multifocal motor neuropathy?	Pure motor neuropathy syndrome, often mistaken for amyotrophic lateral sclerosis is an immune-mediated demyelination syndrome. No loss of reflexes, and only lower motor neuron signs are present such as atrophy and weakness. Associated with mild increase in protein in CSF and mild CK rise. MMN is not fatal, and does not diminish life expectation. Treatment is with intravenous immunoglobulin (IVIG), which can in many cases be highly effective, or immunosuppressive therapy with cyclophosphamide or rituximab.
Key features of Serotonin Syndrome (4)	Mental-status changesAutonomic hyper-activityMyoclonusSSRI use
Features of CJD	MAD - Myoclonus, Ataxia & Dementia. First symptom is often psychiatric. EEG Hallmark is 1 Hz generalized periodic complexes.
Trinucleotide Repeat Disorders	CTG - Myotonic Dystrophy CAG - Huntington's Chorea GAA - Freidrich's Ataxia CGG - Fragile X Syndrome
EEG Findings in Encephalopathy	Slowing of EEG background rythym
What are the features differentiating NMS from serotonin syndrome?	Absence of myoclonus, ridgidity and raised CK is key for NMS NMS has a slow onset and is an extreme form of parkinsonism which is why it is associated with dopamine blockade and treated with dopamine agonists (bromocriptine), associated with ridgidity and raised CK.  NMS presents as muscle rigidity, hyperpyrexia, mental status changes, and autonomic instability. However, the clinical laboratory profile of elevations in creatine kinase, liver function tests (lactate dehydrogenase, aspartate transaminase), and white blood cell count, coupled with a low serum iron level, distinguishes NMS from SS among patients taking neuroleptic and serotonin agonist medications simultaneously.   Serotonin syndrome presents as mental status changes, autonomic nervous system disturbances, neurologic manifestations, and hyperthermia
EEG pattern during dreaming:	High frequency, low amplitude (REM sleep) This is the same as an awake EEG
What conditions are Periodic Lateralized Epileptiform Discharges (PLEDs) found in?	Destructive structural lesions of the cortex, more frequently in acute ischemic stroke and less common in tumours and meningoencephalitis, specially herpes simplex virus.  Its origin and prognosis are uncertain but it is known that PLEDs are linked to epilectic seizures, including status epilepticus.
Mechanisms of Anti-epileptics: [...], [...], [...], [...], [...], [...] - Stabilizes inactivated state of voltage-gated Na+ channel [...] - SV2A (Vesicular release protein) [...] & [...] - alpha 2-delta subunit of L-type voltage-regulated calcium channels [...] - GABA reuptake inhibitor [...] - GABA agonists [...] - Blocks T-type Ca2+ channel [...] - Enhances the slow inactivation of voltage-gated sodium channels	Mechanisms of Anti-epileptics: Phenytoin, Carbamazepine, Lamotrigine, Sodium Valproate, Topiramate, Zonisamide - Stabilizes inactivated state of voltage-gated Na+ channel Levetiracetam - SV2A (Vesicular release protein) Gabapentin & Pregabalin - alpha 2-delta subunit of L-type voltage-regulated calcium channels Vigabatrin - GABA reuptake inhibitor Clonazepam/Benzodiazepines - GABA agonists Ethosuximide - Blocks T-type Ca2+ channel Lacosamide - Enhances the slow inactivation of voltage-gated sodium channels
Mechanisms of Anti-epileptics: Phenytoin, Carbamazepine, Lamotrigine, Sodium Valproate, Topiramate, Zonisamide - [...] Levetiracetam - [...] Gabapentin & Pregabalin - [...] Vigabatrin - [...] Clonazepam/Benzodiazepines - [...] Ethosuximide - [...] Lacosamide - [...]	Mechanisms of Anti-epileptics: Phenytoin, Carbamazepine, Lamotrigine, Sodium Valproate, Topiramate, Zonisamide - Stabilizes inactivated state of voltage-gated Na+ channel Levetiracetam - SV2A (Vesicular release protein) Gabapentin & Pregabalin - alpha 2-delta subunit of L-type voltage-regulated calcium channels Vigabatrin - GABA reuptake inhibitor Clonazepam/Benzodiazepines - GABA agonists Ethosuximide - Blocks T-type Ca2+ channel Lacosamide - Enhances the slow inactivation of voltage-gated sodium channels
Which anti-epileptic is the safest during pregnancy?	Lamotrigine  Recent evidence suggests no greater risk of major congenital malformations (MCMs) associated with lamotrigine when compared with untreated pregnancies in women with epilepsy. Although lamotrigine monotherapy was not associated with MCMs, in one study it was associated with the loss of two babies after status epilepticus or prolonged seizures after VPA withdrawal and replacement with lamotrigine.18 It is therefore important to balance a lower risk of association with teratogenic outcomes against efficacy in controlling seizures. The aim should be to have seizure control for at least 6 months before conception and, if possible, cease or use the lowest effective dose of a single anticonvulsant according to the type of epilepsy.  Valproic acid consistently has the highest rate of malformations. The North American AED Pregnancy Registry showed that between 1997 and 2011, the risk of major malformations was 9.3% for valproic acid, 5.5% for phenobarbitone, 4.2% for topiramate, 3.0% for carbamazepine, 2.9% for phenytoin, 2.4% for levetiracetam and 2.0% for lamotrigine.
DRESS[...] or DRESS is a drug-induced hypersensitivity syndrome which occurs 2-6 weeks after drug initiation.   Occurs due to  1) a defect in drug metabolism resulting in the failure to eliminate toxic reactive intermediates 2) reactivation of human herpesvirus 6 (HHV-6), human herpesvirus 7 (HHV-7), Epstein-Barr virus (EBV), or cytomegalovirus (CMV), which may serve as a trigger for the reaction 3) a genetic predisposition that alters immune response.   Most common affected organs in order and %: Liver (80%), Kidney (40%) & Lung (33%)   Most common medications which precipitate: Anticonvulsants, especially phenobarbitol, carbamazepine and phenytoin; allopurinol, and sulphonamides.   Diagnostic Criteria (must meet 4 out of 5) 1) Acute rash 2) Fever above 38°C 3) Lymphadenopathy at two sites 4) Involvement of at least one internal organ 5) Abnormalities in lymphocyte and eosinophil counts   HLA associated with DRESS: HLAB5801, in patients taking allopurinol   Key Drugs Associated: Anti-epileptics and allopurinol	DRESSDrug Reaction with Eosinophila and Systemic Symptoms or DRESS is a drug-induced hypersensitivity syndrome which occurs 2-6 weeks after drug initiation.   Occurs due to  1) a defect in drug metabolism resulting in the failure to eliminate toxic reactive intermediates 2) reactivation of human herpesvirus 6 (HHV-6), human herpesvirus 7 (HHV-7), Epstein-Barr virus (EBV), or cytomegalovirus (CMV), which may serve as a trigger for the reaction 3) a genetic predisposition that alters immune response.   Most common affected organs in order and %: Liver (80%), Kidney (40%) & Lung (33%)   Most common medications which precipitate: Anticonvulsants, especially phenobarbitol, carbamazepine and phenytoin; allopurinol, and sulphonamides.   Diagnostic Criteria (must meet 4 out of 5) 1) Acute rash 2) Fever above 38°C 3) Lymphadenopathy at two sites 4) Involvement of at least one internal organ 5) Abnormalities in lymphocyte and eosinophil counts   HLA associated with DRESS: HLAB5801, in patients taking allopurinol   Key Drugs Associated: Anti-epileptics and allopurinol
DRESSDrug Reaction with Eosinophila and Systemic Symptoms or DRESS is a [...] which occurs 2-6 weeks after drug initiation.   Occurs due to  1) a defect in drug metabolism resulting in the failure to eliminate toxic reactive intermediates 2) reactivation of human herpesvirus 6 (HHV-6), human herpesvirus 7 (HHV-7), Epstein-Barr virus (EBV), or cytomegalovirus (CMV), which may serve as a trigger for the reaction 3) a genetic predisposition that alters immune response.   Most common affected organs in order and %: Liver (80%), Kidney (40%) & Lung (33%)   Most common medications which precipitate: Anticonvulsants, especially phenobarbitol, carbamazepine and phenytoin; allopurinol, and sulphonamides.   Diagnostic Criteria (must meet 4 out of 5) 1) Acute rash 2) Fever above 38°C 3) Lymphadenopathy at two sites 4) Involvement of at least one internal organ 5) Abnormalities in lymphocyte and eosinophil counts   HLA associated with DRESS: HLAB5801, in patients taking allopurinol   Key Drugs Associated: Anti-epileptics and allopurinol	DRESSDrug Reaction with Eosinophila and Systemic Symptoms or DRESS is a drug-induced hypersensitivity syndrome which occurs 2-6 weeks after drug initiation.   Occurs due to  1) a defect in drug metabolism resulting in the failure to eliminate toxic reactive intermediates 2) reactivation of human herpesvirus 6 (HHV-6), human herpesvirus 7 (HHV-7), Epstein-Barr virus (EBV), or cytomegalovirus (CMV), which may serve as a trigger for the reaction 3) a genetic predisposition that alters immune response.   Most common affected organs in order and %: Liver (80%), Kidney (40%) & Lung (33%)   Most common medications which precipitate: Anticonvulsants, especially phenobarbitol, carbamazepine and phenytoin; allopurinol, and sulphonamides.   Diagnostic Criteria (must meet 4 out of 5) 1) Acute rash 2) Fever above 38°C 3) Lymphadenopathy at two sites 4) Involvement of at least one internal organ 5) Abnormalities in lymphocyte and eosinophil counts   HLA associated with DRESS: HLAB5801, in patients taking allopurinol   Key Drugs Associated: Anti-epileptics and allopurinol
DRESSDrug Reaction with Eosinophila and Systemic Symptoms or DRESS is a drug-induced hypersensitivity syndrome which occurs [...] after drug initiation.   Occurs due to  1) a defect in drug metabolism resulting in the failure to eliminate toxic reactive intermediates 2) reactivation of human herpesvirus 6 (HHV-6), human herpesvirus 7 (HHV-7), Epstein-Barr virus (EBV), or cytomegalovirus (CMV), which may serve as a trigger for the reaction 3) a genetic predisposition that alters immune response.   Most common affected organs in order and %: Liver (80%), Kidney (40%) & Lung (33%)   Most common medications which precipitate: Anticonvulsants, especially phenobarbitol, carbamazepine and phenytoin; allopurinol, and sulphonamides.   Diagnostic Criteria (must meet 4 out of 5) 1) Acute rash 2) Fever above 38°C 3) Lymphadenopathy at two sites 4) Involvement of at least one internal organ 5) Abnormalities in lymphocyte and eosinophil counts   HLA associated with DRESS: HLAB5801, in patients taking allopurinol   Key Drugs Associated: Anti-epileptics and allopurinol	DRESSDrug Reaction with Eosinophila and Systemic Symptoms or DRESS is a drug-induced hypersensitivity syndrome which occurs 2-6 weeks after drug initiation.   Occurs due to  1) a defect in drug metabolism resulting in the failure to eliminate toxic reactive intermediates 2) reactivation of human herpesvirus 6 (HHV-6), human herpesvirus 7 (HHV-7), Epstein-Barr virus (EBV), or cytomegalovirus (CMV), which may serve as a trigger for the reaction 3) a genetic predisposition that alters immune response.   Most common affected organs in order and %: Liver (80%), Kidney (40%) & Lung (33%)   Most common medications which precipitate: Anticonvulsants, especially phenobarbitol, carbamazepine and phenytoin; allopurinol, and sulphonamides.   Diagnostic Criteria (must meet 4 out of 5) 1) Acute rash 2) Fever above 38°C 3) Lymphadenopathy at two sites 4) Involvement of at least one internal organ 5) Abnormalities in lymphocyte and eosinophil counts   HLA associated with DRESS: HLAB5801, in patients taking allopurinol   Key Drugs Associated: Anti-epileptics and allopurinol
DRESSDrug Reaction with Eosinophila and Systemic Symptoms or DRESS is a drug-induced hypersensitivity syndrome which occurs 2-6 weeks after drug initiation.   Occurs due to  1) [...] 2) [...] 3) [...].   Most common affected organs in order and %: Liver (80%), Kidney (40%) & Lung (33%)   Most common medications which precipitate: Anticonvulsants, especially phenobarbitol, carbamazepine and phenytoin; allopurinol, and sulphonamides.   Diagnostic Criteria (must meet 4 out of 5) 1) Acute rash 2) Fever above 38°C 3) Lymphadenopathy at two sites 4) Involvement of at least one internal organ 5) Abnormalities in lymphocyte and eosinophil counts   HLA associated with DRESS: HLAB5801, in patients taking allopurinol   Key Drugs Associated: Anti-epileptics and allopurinol	DRESSDrug Reaction with Eosinophila and Systemic Symptoms or DRESS is a drug-induced hypersensitivity syndrome which occurs 2-6 weeks after drug initiation.   Occurs due to  1) a defect in drug metabolism resulting in the failure to eliminate toxic reactive intermediates 2) reactivation of human herpesvirus 6 (HHV-6), human herpesvirus 7 (HHV-7), Epstein-Barr virus (EBV), or cytomegalovirus (CMV), which may serve as a trigger for the reaction 3) a genetic predisposition that alters immune response.   Most common affected organs in order and %: Liver (80%), Kidney (40%) & Lung (33%)   Most common medications which precipitate: Anticonvulsants, especially phenobarbitol, carbamazepine and phenytoin; allopurinol, and sulphonamides.   Diagnostic Criteria (must meet 4 out of 5) 1) Acute rash 2) Fever above 38°C 3) Lymphadenopathy at two sites 4) Involvement of at least one internal organ 5) Abnormalities in lymphocyte and eosinophil counts   HLA associated with DRESS: HLAB5801, in patients taking allopurinol   Key Drugs Associated: Anti-epileptics and allopurinol
DRESSDrug Reaction with Eosinophila and Systemic Symptoms or DRESS is a drug-induced hypersensitivity syndrome which occurs 2-6 weeks after drug initiation.   Occurs due to  1) a defect in drug metabolism resulting in the failure to eliminate toxic reactive intermediates 2) reactivation of human herpesvirus 6 (HHV-6), human herpesvirus 7 (HHV-7), Epstein-Barr virus (EBV), or cytomegalovirus (CMV), which may serve as a trigger for the reaction 3) a genetic predisposition that alters immune response.   Most common affected organs in order and %: Liver (80%), Kidney (40%) & Lung (33%)   Most common medications which precipitate: Anticonvulsants, especially phenobarbitol, carbamazepine and phenytoin; allopurinol, and sulphonamides.   Diagnostic Criteria (must meet 4 out of 5) 1) [...] 2) [...] 3) [...] 4) [...] 5) [...]   HLA associated with DRESS: HLAB5801, in patients taking allopurinol   Key Drugs Associated: Anti-epileptics and allopurinol	DRESSDrug Reaction with Eosinophila and Systemic Symptoms or DRESS is a drug-induced hypersensitivity syndrome which occurs 2-6 weeks after drug initiation.   Occurs due to  1) a defect in drug metabolism resulting in the failure to eliminate toxic reactive intermediates 2) reactivation of human herpesvirus 6 (HHV-6), human herpesvirus 7 (HHV-7), Epstein-Barr virus (EBV), or cytomegalovirus (CMV), which may serve as a trigger for the reaction 3) a genetic predisposition that alters immune response.   Most common affected organs in order and %: Liver (80%), Kidney (40%) & Lung (33%)   Most common medications which precipitate: Anticonvulsants, especially phenobarbitol, carbamazepine and phenytoin; allopurinol, and sulphonamides.   Diagnostic Criteria (must meet 4 out of 5) 1) Acute rash 2) Fever above 38°C 3) Lymphadenopathy at two sites 4) Involvement of at least one internal organ 5) Abnormalities in lymphocyte and eosinophil counts   HLA associated with DRESS: HLAB5801, in patients taking allopurinol   Key Drugs Associated: Anti-epileptics and allopurinol
DRESSDrug Reaction with Eosinophila and Systemic Symptoms or DRESS is a drug-induced hypersensitivity syndrome which occurs 2-6 weeks after drug initiation.   Occurs due to  1) a defect in drug metabolism resulting in the failure to eliminate toxic reactive intermediates 2) reactivation of human herpesvirus 6 (HHV-6), human herpesvirus 7 (HHV-7), Epstein-Barr virus (EBV), or cytomegalovirus (CMV), which may serve as a trigger for the reaction 3) a genetic predisposition that alters immune response.   Most common affected organs in order and %: [...], [...] & [...]   Most common medications which precipitate: Anticonvulsants, especially phenobarbitol, carbamazepine and phenytoin; allopurinol, and sulphonamides.   Diagnostic Criteria (must meet 4 out of 5) 1) Acute rash 2) Fever above 38°C 3) Lymphadenopathy at two sites 4) Involvement of at least one internal organ 5) Abnormalities in lymphocyte and eosinophil counts   HLA associated with DRESS: HLAB5801, in patients taking allopurinol   Key Drugs Associated: Anti-epileptics and allopurinol	DRESSDrug Reaction with Eosinophila and Systemic Symptoms or DRESS is a drug-induced hypersensitivity syndrome which occurs 2-6 weeks after drug initiation.   Occurs due to  1) a defect in drug metabolism resulting in the failure to eliminate toxic reactive intermediates 2) reactivation of human herpesvirus 6 (HHV-6), human herpesvirus 7 (HHV-7), Epstein-Barr virus (EBV), or cytomegalovirus (CMV), which may serve as a trigger for the reaction 3) a genetic predisposition that alters immune response.   Most common affected organs in order and %: Liver (80%), Kidney (40%) & Lung (33%)   Most common medications which precipitate: Anticonvulsants, especially phenobarbitol, carbamazepine and phenytoin; allopurinol, and sulphonamides.   Diagnostic Criteria (must meet 4 out of 5) 1) Acute rash 2) Fever above 38°C 3) Lymphadenopathy at two sites 4) Involvement of at least one internal organ 5) Abnormalities in lymphocyte and eosinophil counts   HLA associated with DRESS: HLAB5801, in patients taking allopurinol   Key Drugs Associated: Anti-epileptics and allopurinol
DRESSDrug Reaction with Eosinophila and Systemic Symptoms or DRESS is a drug-induced hypersensitivity syndrome which occurs 2-6 weeks after drug initiation.   Occurs due to  1) a defect in drug metabolism resulting in the failure to eliminate toxic reactive intermediates 2) reactivation of human herpesvirus 6 (HHV-6), human herpesvirus 7 (HHV-7), Epstein-Barr virus (EBV), or cytomegalovirus (CMV), which may serve as a trigger for the reaction 3) a genetic predisposition that alters immune response.   Most common affected organs in order and %: Liver (80%), Kidney (40%) & Lung (33%)   Most common medications which precipitate: [...]   Diagnostic Criteria (must meet 4 out of 5) 1) Acute rash 2) Fever above 38°C 3) Lymphadenopathy at two sites 4) Involvement of at least one internal organ 5) Abnormalities in lymphocyte and eosinophil counts   HLA associated with DRESS: HLAB5801, in patients taking allopurinol   Key Drugs Associated: Anti-epileptics and allopurinol	DRESSDrug Reaction with Eosinophila and Systemic Symptoms or DRESS is a drug-induced hypersensitivity syndrome which occurs 2-6 weeks after drug initiation.   Occurs due to  1) a defect in drug metabolism resulting in the failure to eliminate toxic reactive intermediates 2) reactivation of human herpesvirus 6 (HHV-6), human herpesvirus 7 (HHV-7), Epstein-Barr virus (EBV), or cytomegalovirus (CMV), which may serve as a trigger for the reaction 3) a genetic predisposition that alters immune response.   Most common affected organs in order and %: Liver (80%), Kidney (40%) & Lung (33%)   Most common medications which precipitate: Anticonvulsants, especially phenobarbitol, carbamazepine and phenytoin; allopurinol, and sulphonamides.   Diagnostic Criteria (must meet 4 out of 5) 1) Acute rash 2) Fever above 38°C 3) Lymphadenopathy at two sites 4) Involvement of at least one internal organ 5) Abnormalities in lymphocyte and eosinophil counts   HLA associated with DRESS: HLAB5801, in patients taking allopurinol   Key Drugs Associated: Anti-epileptics and allopurinol
Anti-epileptics and Birth Defects [...] - Neural Tube Defects (10-20-fold over the normal population) & cardiac malformations [...] - Cardiac malformations [...] causing [...] - hypoplasia and irregular ossification of the distal phalanges, facial dysmorphism, wide prominent lips.  [...] - Spina Bifida	Anti-epileptics and Birth Defects Sodium Valproate - Neural Tube Defects (10-20-fold over the normal population) & cardiac malformations Barbituates (phenobarbitol) - Cardiac malformations Phenytoin causing Fetal Hydantoin Syndrome - hypoplasia and irregular ossification of the distal phalanges, facial dysmorphism, wide prominent lips.  Carbamazepine - Spina Bifida
Anti-epileptics and Birth Defects Sodium Valproate - [...] Barbituates (phenobarbitol) - [...] Phenytoin causing Fetal Hydantoin Syndrome - [...] Carbamazepine - [...]	Anti-epileptics and Birth Defects Sodium Valproate - Neural Tube Defects (10-20-fold over the normal population) & cardiac malformations Barbituates (phenobarbitol) - Cardiac malformations Phenytoin causing Fetal Hydantoin Syndrome - hypoplasia and irregular ossification of the distal phalanges, facial dysmorphism, wide prominent lips.  Carbamazepine - Spina Bifida
Most common causes of seizures in the elderly are [...] and alzheimer's disease	Most common causes of seizures in the elderly are strokes and alzheimer's disease
Most common causes of seizures in the elderly are strokes and [...]	Most common causes of seizures in the elderly are strokes and alzheimer's disease
The most important symptom to have in parkinson's disease is [...]	The most important symptom to have in parkinson's disease is bradykinesia
Parkinson's DiseaseMost important pre-motor or prodromal feature of Parkinson's disease is [...].    Non-motor features include: hyposmia, anxiety & constipation   The non-motor clinical features of PD:  Autonomic dysfunction (orthostatic, constipation, abnormal sweating) Sleep Disorders (Insomnia, sleep fragmentation) Sensory Symptoms (Hyposmia, pain, abnormal sensations) Neuropsychiatric (cognitive impairment and dementia)   Predictors of Dementia in PD Older Age Postural Instability Gait Dysfunction (PIGD Phenotype) Cognitive Impairment Early Hallucinations (Overlap with Lewy-body dementia)   Pathophysiology of PD: Lewy bodies or alpha-synuclein beginning in the medulla and olfactory bulb before moving to the substantia nigra.   Protective Factors in PD: Male sex, tobacco use and coffee consumption   Management: Any therapy can be used however, levodopa is best tolerated and most effective.	Parkinson's DiseaseMost important pre-motor or prodromal feature of Parkinson's disease is REM sleep behavior disorder.    Non-motor features include: hyposmia, anxiety & constipation   The non-motor clinical features of PD:  Autonomic dysfunction (orthostatic, constipation, abnormal sweating) Sleep Disorders (Insomnia, sleep fragmentation) Sensory Symptoms (Hyposmia, pain, abnormal sensations) Neuropsychiatric (cognitive impairment and dementia)   Predictors of Dementia in PD Older Age Postural Instability Gait Dysfunction (PIGD Phenotype) Cognitive Impairment Early Hallucinations (Overlap with Lewy-body dementia)   Pathophysiology of PD: Lewy bodies or alpha-synuclein beginning in the medulla and olfactory bulb before moving to the substantia nigra.   Protective Factors in PD: Male sex, tobacco use and coffee consumption   Management: Any therapy can be used however, levodopa is best tolerated and most effective.
Parkinson's DiseaseMost important pre-motor or prodromal feature of Parkinson's disease is REM sleep behavior disorder.    Non-motor features include: [...], [...] & [...]   The non-motor clinical features of PD:  Autonomic dysfunction (orthostatic, constipation, abnormal sweating) Sleep Disorders (Insomnia, sleep fragmentation) Sensory Symptoms (Hyposmia, pain, abnormal sensations) Neuropsychiatric (cognitive impairment and dementia)   Predictors of Dementia in PD Older Age Postural Instability Gait Dysfunction (PIGD Phenotype) Cognitive Impairment Early Hallucinations (Overlap with Lewy-body dementia)   Pathophysiology of PD: Lewy bodies or alpha-synuclein beginning in the medulla and olfactory bulb before moving to the substantia nigra.   Protective Factors in PD: Male sex, tobacco use and coffee consumption   Management: Any therapy can be used however, levodopa is best tolerated and most effective.	Parkinson's DiseaseMost important pre-motor or prodromal feature of Parkinson's disease is REM sleep behavior disorder.    Non-motor features include: hyposmia, anxiety & constipation   The non-motor clinical features of PD:  Autonomic dysfunction (orthostatic, constipation, abnormal sweating) Sleep Disorders (Insomnia, sleep fragmentation) Sensory Symptoms (Hyposmia, pain, abnormal sensations) Neuropsychiatric (cognitive impairment and dementia)   Predictors of Dementia in PD Older Age Postural Instability Gait Dysfunction (PIGD Phenotype) Cognitive Impairment Early Hallucinations (Overlap with Lewy-body dementia)   Pathophysiology of PD: Lewy bodies or alpha-synuclein beginning in the medulla and olfactory bulb before moving to the substantia nigra.   Protective Factors in PD: Male sex, tobacco use and coffee consumption   Management: Any therapy can be used however, levodopa is best tolerated and most effective.
Parkinson's DiseaseMost important pre-motor or prodromal feature of Parkinson's disease is REM sleep behavior disorder.    Non-motor features include: hyposmia, anxiety & constipation   The non-motor clinical features of PD:  [...] [...] [...] [...]   Predictors of Dementia in PD Older Age Postural Instability Gait Dysfunction (PIGD Phenotype) Cognitive Impairment Early Hallucinations (Overlap with Lewy-body dementia)   Pathophysiology of PD: Lewy bodies or alpha-synuclein beginning in the medulla and olfactory bulb before moving to the substantia nigra.   Protective Factors in PD: Male sex, tobacco use and coffee consumption   Management: Any therapy can be used however, levodopa is best tolerated and most effective.	Parkinson's DiseaseMost important pre-motor or prodromal feature of Parkinson's disease is REM sleep behavior disorder.    Non-motor features include: hyposmia, anxiety & constipation   The non-motor clinical features of PD:  Autonomic dysfunction (orthostatic, constipation, abnormal sweating) Sleep Disorders (Insomnia, sleep fragmentation) Sensory Symptoms (Hyposmia, pain, abnormal sensations) Neuropsychiatric (cognitive impairment and dementia)   Predictors of Dementia in PD Older Age Postural Instability Gait Dysfunction (PIGD Phenotype) Cognitive Impairment Early Hallucinations (Overlap with Lewy-body dementia)   Pathophysiology of PD: Lewy bodies or alpha-synuclein beginning in the medulla and olfactory bulb before moving to the substantia nigra.   Protective Factors in PD: Male sex, tobacco use and coffee consumption   Management: Any therapy can be used however, levodopa is best tolerated and most effective.
Parkinson's DiseaseMost important pre-motor or prodromal feature of Parkinson's disease is REM sleep behavior disorder.    Non-motor features include: hyposmia, anxiety & constipation   The non-motor clinical features of PD:  Autonomic dysfunction (orthostatic, constipation, abnormal sweating) Sleep Disorders (Insomnia, sleep fragmentation) Sensory Symptoms (Hyposmia, pain, abnormal sensations) Neuropsychiatric (cognitive impairment and dementia)   Predictors of Dementia in PD [...] [...] [...] [...]   Pathophysiology of PD: Lewy bodies or alpha-synuclein beginning in the medulla and olfactory bulb before moving to the substantia nigra.   Protective Factors in PD: Male sex, tobacco use and coffee consumption   Management: Any therapy can be used however, levodopa is best tolerated and most effective.	Parkinson's DiseaseMost important pre-motor or prodromal feature of Parkinson's disease is REM sleep behavior disorder.    Non-motor features include: hyposmia, anxiety & constipation   The non-motor clinical features of PD:  Autonomic dysfunction (orthostatic, constipation, abnormal sweating) Sleep Disorders (Insomnia, sleep fragmentation) Sensory Symptoms (Hyposmia, pain, abnormal sensations) Neuropsychiatric (cognitive impairment and dementia)   Predictors of Dementia in PD Older Age Postural Instability Gait Dysfunction (PIGD Phenotype) Cognitive Impairment Early Hallucinations (Overlap with Lewy-body dementia)   Pathophysiology of PD: Lewy bodies or alpha-synuclein beginning in the medulla and olfactory bulb before moving to the substantia nigra.   Protective Factors in PD: Male sex, tobacco use and coffee consumption   Management: Any therapy can be used however, levodopa is best tolerated and most effective.
Parkinson's DiseaseMost important pre-motor or prodromal feature of Parkinson's disease is REM sleep behavior disorder.    Non-motor features include: hyposmia, anxiety & constipation   The non-motor clinical features of PD:  Autonomic dysfunction (orthostatic, constipation, abnormal sweating) Sleep Disorders (Insomnia, sleep fragmentation) Sensory Symptoms (Hyposmia, pain, abnormal sensations) Neuropsychiatric (cognitive impairment and dementia)   Predictors of Dementia in PD Older Age Postural Instability Gait Dysfunction (PIGD Phenotype) Cognitive Impairment Early Hallucinations (Overlap with Lewy-body dementia)   Pathophysiology of PD: [...] beginning in the medulla and olfactory bulb before moving to the substantia nigra.   Protective Factors in PD: Male sex, tobacco use and coffee consumption   Management: Any therapy can be used however, levodopa is best tolerated and most effective.	Parkinson's DiseaseMost important pre-motor or prodromal feature of Parkinson's disease is REM sleep behavior disorder.    Non-motor features include: hyposmia, anxiety & constipation   The non-motor clinical features of PD:  Autonomic dysfunction (orthostatic, constipation, abnormal sweating) Sleep Disorders (Insomnia, sleep fragmentation) Sensory Symptoms (Hyposmia, pain, abnormal sensations) Neuropsychiatric (cognitive impairment and dementia)   Predictors of Dementia in PD Older Age Postural Instability Gait Dysfunction (PIGD Phenotype) Cognitive Impairment Early Hallucinations (Overlap with Lewy-body dementia)   Pathophysiology of PD: Lewy bodies or alpha-synuclein beginning in the medulla and olfactory bulb before moving to the substantia nigra.   Protective Factors in PD: Male sex, tobacco use and coffee consumption   Management: Any therapy can be used however, levodopa is best tolerated and most effective.
Parkinson's DiseaseMost important pre-motor or prodromal feature of Parkinson's disease is REM sleep behavior disorder.    Non-motor features include: hyposmia, anxiety & constipation   The non-motor clinical features of PD:  Autonomic dysfunction (orthostatic, constipation, abnormal sweating) Sleep Disorders (Insomnia, sleep fragmentation) Sensory Symptoms (Hyposmia, pain, abnormal sensations) Neuropsychiatric (cognitive impairment and dementia)   Predictors of Dementia in PD Older Age Postural Instability Gait Dysfunction (PIGD Phenotype) Cognitive Impairment Early Hallucinations (Overlap with Lewy-body dementia)   Pathophysiology of PD: Lewy bodies or alpha-synuclein beginning in the [...] before moving to the substantia nigra.   Protective Factors in PD: Male sex, tobacco use and coffee consumption   Management: Any therapy can be used however, levodopa is best tolerated and most effective.	Parkinson's DiseaseMost important pre-motor or prodromal feature of Parkinson's disease is REM sleep behavior disorder.    Non-motor features include: hyposmia, anxiety & constipation   The non-motor clinical features of PD:  Autonomic dysfunction (orthostatic, constipation, abnormal sweating) Sleep Disorders (Insomnia, sleep fragmentation) Sensory Symptoms (Hyposmia, pain, abnormal sensations) Neuropsychiatric (cognitive impairment and dementia)   Predictors of Dementia in PD Older Age Postural Instability Gait Dysfunction (PIGD Phenotype) Cognitive Impairment Early Hallucinations (Overlap with Lewy-body dementia)   Pathophysiology of PD: Lewy bodies or alpha-synuclein beginning in the medulla and olfactory bulb before moving to the substantia nigra.   Protective Factors in PD: Male sex, tobacco use and coffee consumption   Management: Any therapy can be used however, levodopa is best tolerated and most effective.
Parkinson's DiseaseMost important pre-motor or prodromal feature of Parkinson's disease is REM sleep behavior disorder.    Non-motor features include: hyposmia, anxiety & constipation   The non-motor clinical features of PD:  Autonomic dysfunction (orthostatic, constipation, abnormal sweating) Sleep Disorders (Insomnia, sleep fragmentation) Sensory Symptoms (Hyposmia, pain, abnormal sensations) Neuropsychiatric (cognitive impairment and dementia)   Predictors of Dementia in PD Older Age Postural Instability Gait Dysfunction (PIGD Phenotype) Cognitive Impairment Early Hallucinations (Overlap with Lewy-body dementia)   Pathophysiology of PD: Lewy bodies or alpha-synuclein beginning in the medulla and olfactory bulb before moving to the substantia nigra.   Protective Factors in PD: [...], [...] and [...]   Management: Any therapy can be used however, levodopa is best tolerated and most effective.	Parkinson's DiseaseMost important pre-motor or prodromal feature of Parkinson's disease is REM sleep behavior disorder.    Non-motor features include: hyposmia, anxiety & constipation   The non-motor clinical features of PD:  Autonomic dysfunction (orthostatic, constipation, abnormal sweating) Sleep Disorders (Insomnia, sleep fragmentation) Sensory Symptoms (Hyposmia, pain, abnormal sensations) Neuropsychiatric (cognitive impairment and dementia)   Predictors of Dementia in PD Older Age Postural Instability Gait Dysfunction (PIGD Phenotype) Cognitive Impairment Early Hallucinations (Overlap with Lewy-body dementia)   Pathophysiology of PD: Lewy bodies or alpha-synuclein beginning in the medulla and olfactory bulb before moving to the substantia nigra.   Protective Factors in PD: Male sex, tobacco use and coffee consumption   Management: Any therapy can be used however, levodopa is best tolerated and most effective.
Parkinson's DiseaseMost important pre-motor or prodromal feature of Parkinson's disease is REM sleep behavior disorder.    Non-motor features include: hyposmia, anxiety & constipation   The non-motor clinical features of PD:  Autonomic dysfunction (orthostatic, constipation, abnormal sweating) Sleep Disorders (Insomnia, sleep fragmentation) Sensory Symptoms (Hyposmia, pain, abnormal sensations) Neuropsychiatric (cognitive impairment and dementia)   Predictors of Dementia in PD Older Age Postural Instability Gait Dysfunction (PIGD Phenotype) Cognitive Impairment Early Hallucinations (Overlap with Lewy-body dementia)   Pathophysiology of PD: Lewy bodies or alpha-synuclein beginning in the medulla and olfactory bulb before moving to the substantia nigra.   Protective Factors in PD: Male sex, tobacco use and coffee consumption   Management: Any therapy can be used however, [...].	Parkinson's DiseaseMost important pre-motor or prodromal feature of Parkinson's disease is REM sleep behavior disorder.    Non-motor features include: hyposmia, anxiety & constipation   The non-motor clinical features of PD:  Autonomic dysfunction (orthostatic, constipation, abnormal sweating) Sleep Disorders (Insomnia, sleep fragmentation) Sensory Symptoms (Hyposmia, pain, abnormal sensations) Neuropsychiatric (cognitive impairment and dementia)   Predictors of Dementia in PD Older Age Postural Instability Gait Dysfunction (PIGD Phenotype) Cognitive Impairment Early Hallucinations (Overlap with Lewy-body dementia)   Pathophysiology of PD: Lewy bodies or alpha-synuclein beginning in the medulla and olfactory bulb before moving to the substantia nigra.   Protective Factors in PD: Male sex, tobacco use and coffee consumption   Management: Any therapy can be used however, levodopa is best tolerated and most effective.
Dyskinesias in Parkinson's Disease [...] - chorea, entire body and often may not be aware [...] - (often early morning or 3-4 hours post-LDOPA) - dystonias, can be painful	Dyskinesias in Parkinson's Disease Peak Dose Dyskinesias - chorea, entire body and often may not be aware End of Dose Dyskinesias - (often early morning or 3-4 hours post-LDOPA) - dystonias, can be painful
Parkinson's Plus Syndromes   Multiple System's Atrophy [...] - MSA with prodominant cerebellar ataxia [...] - MSA with predominant parkinsonism [...] - MSA with predominantly autonomic syndrome   The main clinical features of MSA are akinetic-rigid parkinsonism, autonomic failure including urogenital dysfunction, cerebellar ataxia, and pyramidal signs in varying combinations.   Progressive Supranuclear Palsy The main clinical features of PSP are early onset of falls, down-gaze palzy, postural instability and frontal dementia   Down-gaze palsy can be overcome using the doll's eye manouvre   Corticobasal Degeneration Pathophysiology: It is a tauopathy, where tau protein is deposited within neurons in the form of neurofibrillary tangles   Commonest presentation is with a useless rigid jerking arm   Clinical features include assymetric akinetic-ridgid syndrome, apraxia, frontal lobe dementia, alien-limb phenomenon	Parkinson's Plus Syndromes   Multiple System's Atrophy Olivopontocerebellar atrophy - MSA with prodominant cerebellar ataxia Striatonigral degeneration - MSA with predominant parkinsonism Shy-Drager syndrome - MSA with predominantly autonomic syndrome   The main clinical features of MSA are akinetic-rigid parkinsonism, autonomic failure including urogenital dysfunction, cerebellar ataxia, and pyramidal signs in varying combinations.   Progressive Supranuclear Palsy The main clinical features of PSP are early onset of falls, down-gaze palzy, postural instability and frontal dementia   Down-gaze palsy can be overcome using the doll's eye manouvre   Corticobasal Degeneration Pathophysiology: It is a tauopathy, where tau protein is deposited within neurons in the form of neurofibrillary tangles   Commonest presentation is with a useless rigid jerking arm   Clinical features include assymetric akinetic-ridgid syndrome, apraxia, frontal lobe dementia, alien-limb phenomenon
Parkinson's Plus Syndromes   Multiple System's Atrophy Olivopontocerebellar atrophy - MSA with prodominant cerebellar ataxia Striatonigral degeneration - MSA with predominant parkinsonism Shy-Drager syndrome - MSA with predominantly autonomic syndrome   The main clinical features of MSA are [...], [...], [...], and [...].   Progressive Supranuclear Palsy The main clinical features of PSP are early onset of falls, down-gaze palzy, postural instability and frontal dementia   Down-gaze palsy can be overcome using the doll's eye manouvre   Corticobasal Degeneration Pathophysiology: It is a tauopathy, where tau protein is deposited within neurons in the form of neurofibrillary tangles   Commonest presentation is with a useless rigid jerking arm   Clinical features include assymetric akinetic-ridgid syndrome, apraxia, frontal lobe dementia, alien-limb phenomenon	Parkinson's Plus Syndromes   Multiple System's Atrophy Olivopontocerebellar atrophy - MSA with prodominant cerebellar ataxia Striatonigral degeneration - MSA with predominant parkinsonism Shy-Drager syndrome - MSA with predominantly autonomic syndrome   The main clinical features of MSA are akinetic-rigid parkinsonism, autonomic failure including urogenital dysfunction, cerebellar ataxia, and pyramidal signs in varying combinations.   Progressive Supranuclear Palsy The main clinical features of PSP are early onset of falls, down-gaze palzy, postural instability and frontal dementia   Down-gaze palsy can be overcome using the doll's eye manouvre   Corticobasal Degeneration Pathophysiology: It is a tauopathy, where tau protein is deposited within neurons in the form of neurofibrillary tangles   Commonest presentation is with a useless rigid jerking arm   Clinical features include assymetric akinetic-ridgid syndrome, apraxia, frontal lobe dementia, alien-limb phenomenon
Parkinson's Plus Syndromes   Multiple System's Atrophy Olivopontocerebellar atrophy - MSA with prodominant cerebellar ataxia Striatonigral degeneration - MSA with predominant parkinsonism Shy-Drager syndrome - MSA with predominantly autonomic syndrome   The main clinical features of MSA are akinetic-rigid parkinsonism, autonomic failure including urogenital dysfunction, cerebellar ataxia, and pyramidal signs in varying combinations.   Progressive Supranuclear Palsy The main clinical features of PSP are [...], [...], [...] and [...]   Down-gaze palsy can be overcome using the doll's eye manouvre   Corticobasal Degeneration Pathophysiology: It is a tauopathy, where tau protein is deposited within neurons in the form of neurofibrillary tangles   Commonest presentation is with a useless rigid jerking arm   Clinical features include assymetric akinetic-ridgid syndrome, apraxia, frontal lobe dementia, alien-limb phenomenon	Parkinson's Plus Syndromes   Multiple System's Atrophy Olivopontocerebellar atrophy - MSA with prodominant cerebellar ataxia Striatonigral degeneration - MSA with predominant parkinsonism Shy-Drager syndrome - MSA with predominantly autonomic syndrome   The main clinical features of MSA are akinetic-rigid parkinsonism, autonomic failure including urogenital dysfunction, cerebellar ataxia, and pyramidal signs in varying combinations.   Progressive Supranuclear Palsy The main clinical features of PSP are early onset of falls, down-gaze palzy, postural instability and frontal dementia   Down-gaze palsy can be overcome using the doll's eye manouvre   Corticobasal Degeneration Pathophysiology: It is a tauopathy, where tau protein is deposited within neurons in the form of neurofibrillary tangles   Commonest presentation is with a useless rigid jerking arm   Clinical features include assymetric akinetic-ridgid syndrome, apraxia, frontal lobe dementia, alien-limb phenomenon
Parkinson's Plus Syndromes   Multiple System's Atrophy Olivopontocerebellar atrophy - MSA with prodominant cerebellar ataxia Striatonigral degeneration - MSA with predominant parkinsonism Shy-Drager syndrome - MSA with predominantly autonomic syndrome   The main clinical features of MSA are akinetic-rigid parkinsonism, autonomic failure including urogenital dysfunction, cerebellar ataxia, and pyramidal signs in varying combinations.   Progressive Supranuclear Palsy The main clinical features of PSP are early onset of falls, down-gaze palzy, postural instability and frontal dementia   Down-gaze palsy can be overcome using the [...]   Corticobasal Degeneration Pathophysiology: It is a tauopathy, where tau protein is deposited within neurons in the form of neurofibrillary tangles   Commonest presentation is with a useless rigid jerking arm   Clinical features include assymetric akinetic-ridgid syndrome, apraxia, frontal lobe dementia, alien-limb phenomenon	Parkinson's Plus Syndromes   Multiple System's Atrophy Olivopontocerebellar atrophy - MSA with prodominant cerebellar ataxia Striatonigral degeneration - MSA with predominant parkinsonism Shy-Drager syndrome - MSA with predominantly autonomic syndrome   The main clinical features of MSA are akinetic-rigid parkinsonism, autonomic failure including urogenital dysfunction, cerebellar ataxia, and pyramidal signs in varying combinations.   Progressive Supranuclear Palsy The main clinical features of PSP are early onset of falls, down-gaze palzy, postural instability and frontal dementia   Down-gaze palsy can be overcome using the doll's eye manouvre   Corticobasal Degeneration Pathophysiology: It is a tauopathy, where tau protein is deposited within neurons in the form of neurofibrillary tangles   Commonest presentation is with a useless rigid jerking arm   Clinical features include assymetric akinetic-ridgid syndrome, apraxia, frontal lobe dementia, alien-limb phenomenon
Parkinson's Plus Syndromes   Multiple System's Atrophy Olivopontocerebellar atrophy - MSA with prodominant cerebellar ataxia Striatonigral degeneration - MSA with predominant parkinsonism Shy-Drager syndrome - MSA with predominantly autonomic syndrome   The main clinical features of MSA are akinetic-rigid parkinsonism, autonomic failure including urogenital dysfunction, cerebellar ataxia, and pyramidal signs in varying combinations.   Progressive Supranuclear Palsy The main clinical features of PSP are early onset of falls, down-gaze palzy, postural instability and frontal dementia   Down-gaze palsy can be overcome using the doll's eye manouvre   Corticobasal Degeneration Pathophysiology: It is a [...], where [...] is deposited within neurons in the form of [...]   Commonest presentation is with a useless rigid jerking arm   Clinical features include assymetric akinetic-ridgid syndrome, apraxia, frontal lobe dementia, alien-limb phenomenon	Parkinson's Plus Syndromes   Multiple System's Atrophy Olivopontocerebellar atrophy - MSA with prodominant cerebellar ataxia Striatonigral degeneration - MSA with predominant parkinsonism Shy-Drager syndrome - MSA with predominantly autonomic syndrome   The main clinical features of MSA are akinetic-rigid parkinsonism, autonomic failure including urogenital dysfunction, cerebellar ataxia, and pyramidal signs in varying combinations.   Progressive Supranuclear Palsy The main clinical features of PSP are early onset of falls, down-gaze palzy, postural instability and frontal dementia   Down-gaze palsy can be overcome using the doll's eye manouvre   Corticobasal Degeneration Pathophysiology: It is a tauopathy, where tau protein is deposited within neurons in the form of neurofibrillary tangles   Commonest presentation is with a useless rigid jerking arm   Clinical features include assymetric akinetic-ridgid syndrome, apraxia, frontal lobe dementia, alien-limb phenomenon
Parkinson's Plus Syndromes   Multiple System's Atrophy Olivopontocerebellar atrophy - MSA with prodominant cerebellar ataxia Striatonigral degeneration - MSA with predominant parkinsonism Shy-Drager syndrome - MSA with predominantly autonomic syndrome   The main clinical features of MSA are akinetic-rigid parkinsonism, autonomic failure including urogenital dysfunction, cerebellar ataxia, and pyramidal signs in varying combinations.   Progressive Supranuclear Palsy The main clinical features of PSP are early onset of falls, down-gaze palzy, postural instability and frontal dementia   Down-gaze palsy can be overcome using the doll's eye manouvre   Corticobasal Degeneration Pathophysiology: It is a tauopathy, where tau protein is deposited within neurons in the form of neurofibrillary tangles   Commonest presentation is with a [...]   Clinical features include assymetric akinetic-ridgid syndrome, apraxia, frontal lobe dementia, alien-limb phenomenon	Parkinson's Plus Syndromes   Multiple System's Atrophy Olivopontocerebellar atrophy - MSA with prodominant cerebellar ataxia Striatonigral degeneration - MSA with predominant parkinsonism Shy-Drager syndrome - MSA with predominantly autonomic syndrome   The main clinical features of MSA are akinetic-rigid parkinsonism, autonomic failure including urogenital dysfunction, cerebellar ataxia, and pyramidal signs in varying combinations.   Progressive Supranuclear Palsy The main clinical features of PSP are early onset of falls, down-gaze palzy, postural instability and frontal dementia   Down-gaze palsy can be overcome using the doll's eye manouvre   Corticobasal Degeneration Pathophysiology: It is a tauopathy, where tau protein is deposited within neurons in the form of neurofibrillary tangles   Commonest presentation is with a useless rigid jerking arm   Clinical features include assymetric akinetic-ridgid syndrome, apraxia, frontal lobe dementia, alien-limb phenomenon
Parkinson's Plus Syndromes   Multiple System's Atrophy Olivopontocerebellar atrophy - MSA with prodominant cerebellar ataxia Striatonigral degeneration - MSA with predominant parkinsonism Shy-Drager syndrome - MSA with predominantly autonomic syndrome   The main clinical features of MSA are akinetic-rigid parkinsonism, autonomic failure including urogenital dysfunction, cerebellar ataxia, and pyramidal signs in varying combinations.   Progressive Supranuclear Palsy The main clinical features of PSP are early onset of falls, down-gaze palzy, postural instability and frontal dementia   Down-gaze palsy can be overcome using the doll's eye manouvre   Corticobasal Degeneration Pathophysiology: It is a tauopathy, where tau protein is deposited within neurons in the form of neurofibrillary tangles   Commonest presentation is with a useless rigid jerking arm   Clinical features include [...], [...], [...], [...]	Parkinson's Plus Syndromes   Multiple System's Atrophy Olivopontocerebellar atrophy - MSA with prodominant cerebellar ataxia Striatonigral degeneration - MSA with predominant parkinsonism Shy-Drager syndrome - MSA with predominantly autonomic syndrome   The main clinical features of MSA are akinetic-rigid parkinsonism, autonomic failure including urogenital dysfunction, cerebellar ataxia, and pyramidal signs in varying combinations.   Progressive Supranuclear Palsy The main clinical features of PSP are early onset of falls, down-gaze palzy, postural instability and frontal dementia   Down-gaze palsy can be overcome using the doll's eye manouvre   Corticobasal Degeneration Pathophysiology: It is a tauopathy, where tau protein is deposited within neurons in the form of neurofibrillary tangles   Commonest presentation is with a useless rigid jerking arm   Clinical features include assymetric akinetic-ridgid syndrome, apraxia, frontal lobe dementia, alien-limb phenomenon
DRESSDrug Reaction with Eosinophila and Systemic Symptoms or DRESS is a drug-induced hypersensitivity syndrome which occurs 2-6 weeks after drug initiation.   Occurs due to  1) a defect in drug metabolism resulting in the failure to eliminate toxic reactive intermediates 2) reactivation of human herpesvirus 6 (HHV-6), human herpesvirus 7 (HHV-7), Epstein-Barr virus (EBV), or cytomegalovirus (CMV), which may serve as a trigger for the reaction 3) a genetic predisposition that alters immune response.   Most common affected organs in order and %: Liver (80%), Kidney (40%) & Lung (33%)   Most common medications which precipitate: Anticonvulsants, especially phenobarbitol, carbamazepine and phenytoin; allopurinol, and sulphonamides.   Diagnostic Criteria (must meet 4 out of 5) 1) Acute rash 2) Fever above 38°C 3) Lymphadenopathy at two sites 4) Involvement of at least one internal organ 5) Abnormalities in lymphocyte and eosinophil counts   HLA associated with DRESS: [...]   Key Drugs Associated: Anti-epileptics and allopurinol	DRESSDrug Reaction with Eosinophila and Systemic Symptoms or DRESS is a drug-induced hypersensitivity syndrome which occurs 2-6 weeks after drug initiation.   Occurs due to  1) a defect in drug metabolism resulting in the failure to eliminate toxic reactive intermediates 2) reactivation of human herpesvirus 6 (HHV-6), human herpesvirus 7 (HHV-7), Epstein-Barr virus (EBV), or cytomegalovirus (CMV), which may serve as a trigger for the reaction 3) a genetic predisposition that alters immune response.   Most common affected organs in order and %: Liver (80%), Kidney (40%) & Lung (33%)   Most common medications which precipitate: Anticonvulsants, especially phenobarbitol, carbamazepine and phenytoin; allopurinol, and sulphonamides.   Diagnostic Criteria (must meet 4 out of 5) 1) Acute rash 2) Fever above 38°C 3) Lymphadenopathy at two sites 4) Involvement of at least one internal organ 5) Abnormalities in lymphocyte and eosinophil counts   HLA associated with DRESS: HLAB5801, in patients taking allopurinol   Key Drugs Associated: Anti-epileptics and allopurinol
DRESSDrug Reaction with Eosinophila and Systemic Symptoms or DRESS is a drug-induced hypersensitivity syndrome which occurs 2-6 weeks after drug initiation.   Occurs due to  1) a defect in drug metabolism resulting in the failure to eliminate toxic reactive intermediates 2) reactivation of human herpesvirus 6 (HHV-6), human herpesvirus 7 (HHV-7), Epstein-Barr virus (EBV), or cytomegalovirus (CMV), which may serve as a trigger for the reaction 3) a genetic predisposition that alters immune response.   Most common affected organs in order and %: Liver (80%), Kidney (40%) & Lung (33%)   Most common medications which precipitate: Anticonvulsants, especially phenobarbitol, carbamazepine and phenytoin; allopurinol, and sulphonamides.   Diagnostic Criteria (must meet 4 out of 5) 1) Acute rash 2) Fever above 38°C 3) Lymphadenopathy at two sites 4) Involvement of at least one internal organ 5) Abnormalities in lymphocyte and eosinophil counts   HLA associated with DRESS: HLAB5801, in patients taking allopurinol   Key Drugs Associated: [...]	DRESSDrug Reaction with Eosinophila and Systemic Symptoms or DRESS is a drug-induced hypersensitivity syndrome which occurs 2-6 weeks after drug initiation.   Occurs due to  1) a defect in drug metabolism resulting in the failure to eliminate toxic reactive intermediates 2) reactivation of human herpesvirus 6 (HHV-6), human herpesvirus 7 (HHV-7), Epstein-Barr virus (EBV), or cytomegalovirus (CMV), which may serve as a trigger for the reaction 3) a genetic predisposition that alters immune response.   Most common affected organs in order and %: Liver (80%), Kidney (40%) & Lung (33%)   Most common medications which precipitate: Anticonvulsants, especially phenobarbitol, carbamazepine and phenytoin; allopurinol, and sulphonamides.   Diagnostic Criteria (must meet 4 out of 5) 1) Acute rash 2) Fever above 38°C 3) Lymphadenopathy at two sites 4) Involvement of at least one internal organ 5) Abnormalities in lymphocyte and eosinophil counts   HLA associated with DRESS: HLAB5801, in patients taking allopurinol   Key Drugs Associated: Anti-epileptics and allopurinol
What is the likely cause of a the reduction of efficacy of Interferon therapy within 18 months of commencing therapy for MS?	Interferon therapy neutralizing antibodies Monthly methylprednisolone decreased NAB formation by 50% in patients on intereferon 1b
Multiple sclerosis:    Strongest Risk factor: 1st degree relative gives 20x relative risk; 5% absolute risk   Uhtoff's Symptoms: Exercise-induced or any symptoms related to increased heat eg. shower, sauna & squash.   Predictors of worse outcomes: [...], [...], [...], [...], [...]   Pathogenesis - demyelination of neurons in the CNS (most likely viral mimetic / autoimmune mediated) --> inflammation --> disruption of nerve transmission and plaque formation   Diagnostic Criteria - No longer a need to have separate MRIs run; Dissemination in time demonstrated by: Simultaneous presence of asymptomatic gadolinium-enhancing and nonenhancing lesions at any time. Dissemination in space: 1 or more T2 lesion in at least 2 of 4 MS-typical regions of the CNS (periventricular, juxtacortical, infratentorial, or spinal cord)	Multiple sclerosis:    Strongest Risk factor: 1st degree relative gives 20x relative risk; 5% absolute risk   Uhtoff's Symptoms: Exercise-induced or any symptoms related to increased heat eg. shower, sauna & squash.   Predictors of worse outcomes: Males, high rates of early relapses, older age at onset, pyramidal/brainstem/cerebellar weakness effects, primary progressive   Pathogenesis - demyelination of neurons in the CNS (most likely viral mimetic / autoimmune mediated) --> inflammation --> disruption of nerve transmission and plaque formation   Diagnostic Criteria - No longer a need to have separate MRIs run; Dissemination in time demonstrated by: Simultaneous presence of asymptomatic gadolinium-enhancing and nonenhancing lesions at any time. Dissemination in space: 1 or more T2 lesion in at least 2 of 4 MS-typical regions of the CNS (periventricular, juxtacortical, infratentorial, or spinal cord)
Multiple sclerosis:    Strongest Risk factor: 1st degree relative gives 20x relative risk; 5% absolute risk   Uhtoff's Symptoms: Exercise-induced or any symptoms related to increased heat eg. shower, sauna & squash.   Predictors of worse outcomes: Males, high rates of early relapses, older age at onset, pyramidal/brainstem/cerebellar weakness effects, primary progressive   Pathogenesis - demyelination of neurons in the CNS (most likely viral mimetic / autoimmune mediated) --> inflammation --> disruption of nerve transmission and plaque formation   Diagnostic Criteria - No longer a need to have separate MRIs run; [...] [...]	Multiple sclerosis:    Strongest Risk factor: 1st degree relative gives 20x relative risk; 5% absolute risk   Uhtoff's Symptoms: Exercise-induced or any symptoms related to increased heat eg. shower, sauna & squash.   Predictors of worse outcomes: Males, high rates of early relapses, older age at onset, pyramidal/brainstem/cerebellar weakness effects, primary progressive   Pathogenesis - demyelination of neurons in the CNS (most likely viral mimetic / autoimmune mediated) --> inflammation --> disruption of nerve transmission and plaque formation   Diagnostic Criteria - No longer a need to have separate MRIs run; Dissemination in time demonstrated by: Simultaneous presence of asymptomatic gadolinium-enhancing and nonenhancing lesions at any time. Dissemination in space: 1 or more T2 lesion in at least 2 of 4 MS-typical regions of the CNS (periventricular, juxtacortical, infratentorial, or spinal cord)
SORL1 Mutation	Gene associated with early onset autosomal dominant alzheimer's disease
Gene associated with early onset autosomal dominant alzheimer's disease	SORL1 Mutation
The inherited form of CJD forms are [...] inherited with [...] penetrance and is caused by point and insertion aka missense mutations of the prion protein gene (PRNP), which has 253 codons and is located in the short arm of chromosome 20.    Missense mutations cause typical CJD	The inherited form of CJD forms are autosomal dominantly inherited with high penetrance and is caused by point and insertion aka missense mutations of the prion protein gene (PRNP), which has 253 codons and is located in the short arm of chromosome 20.    Missense mutations cause typical CJD
The inherited form of CJD forms are autosomal dominantly inherited with high penetrance and is caused by [...] mutations of the prion protein gene (PRNP), which has 253 codons and is located in the short arm of chromosome 20.    [...] mutations cause typical CJD	The inherited form of CJD forms are autosomal dominantly inherited with high penetrance and is caused by point and insertion aka missense mutations of the prion protein gene (PRNP), which has 253 codons and is located in the short arm of chromosome 20.    Missense mutations cause typical CJD
ε4 allele of apolipoprotein E	Genetic Risk factor for late onset Alzhemier's Disease
Genetic Risk factor for late onset Alzhemier's Disease	ε4 allele of apolipoprotein E
TREM2: gene encoding the triggering receptor expressed on myeloid cells 2	A rare missense mutation which is involved in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease   Given the involvement of TREM2 in the phagocytic role of microglia on amyloid plaques, it is possible that reduced TREM2 activity caused by the R47H substitution may lead to brain damage through the inability of the brain to clear these toxic products.
A rare missense mutation which is involved in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease	TREM2: gene encoding the triggering receptor expressed on myeloid cells 2    Given the involvement of TREM2 in the phagocytic role of microglia on amyloid plaques, it is possible that reduced TREM2 activity caused by the R47H substitution may lead to brain damage through the inability of the brain to clear these toxic products.
Punding	Constellation of stereotyped behaviors with repetitive manipulations of technical equipment, the continual handling, examining and sorting of common objects, or walkabouts, pointless driving, repetitive fishing expeditions
Constellation of stereotyped behaviors with repetitive manipulations of technical equipment, the continual handling, examining and sorting of common objects, or walkabouts, pointless driving, repetitive fishing expeditions	Punding
[...] must not be given to the asian population because of a high risk of [...] and [...].	Carbamazepine must not be given to the asian population because of a high risk of Steven-Johnson Syndrome and toxic epidermal necrolysis.
Inverse 5HT2A Antagonist	Pimavanserin  Antipsychotic used in parkinson's disease that does not exacerbate motor symptoms
An EEG shows 4Hz generalized spike and wave discharges in the interictal phase after a generalized tonic-clonic seizure. What is the likely syndrome?	Idiopathic generalised epilepsy Idiopathic generalised epilepsies (IGEs) constitute one-third of all epilepsies. They are genetically determined and affect otherwise normal people of both sexes and all races. IGEs manifest with typical absences, myoclonic jerks and generalised tonic clonic seizures (GTCS), alone or in varying combinations and severity. Absence status epilepticus (ASE) is common. Most syndromes of IGE start in childhood or adolescence, but some have an adult onset. They are usually life long, though a few are age related. The EEG is the most sensitive test in the diagnosis and confirmation of IGE. EEG shows generalised discharges of spikes, polyspikes or spike/polyspike-wave either ictally or interictally. These discharges are often precipitated by hyperventilation, sleep deprivation and intermittent photic stimulation. Inconspicuous clinical manifestations become apparent on video EEG and with breath counting during hyperventilation. The EEG is unlikely to be normal in untreated patients. In suspected cases with normal routine awake EEG, an EEG during sleep and awakening should be obtained. Molecular genetic analyses have led to important breakthroughs in the identification of candidate genes and loci; genetic heterogeneity is common. Genetic mutations found in γ-aminobutyric acid (GABA-A) receptor subunits strongly implicate the GABA-A receptor in IGEs. Treatment of IGEs is demanding for two main reasons. Firstly, anti-epileptic drugs (AEDs) beneficial in focal epilepsies may be deleterious in IGEs. Secondly, efficacy of AEDs differs even within IGE seizures. This is because the generation of absences, for example, is due to a predominance of inhibitory activity, in contrast to generalised convulsive seizures in which an excess of excitatory activity is present.    GTCA - Generalized tonic-clonic alone; GEFS - Generalized epilepsy with febrile seizures
Is there a role for NIV in patients with motor-neuron disease?	Yes, it improves quality of life and prolongs life  There is now increasing evidence that non-invasive ventilation can provide effective relief of respiratory symptoms and prolong life. NIPPV is usually offered to MND patients who have respiratory symptoms or when serial test results reach certain predefined cut-offs (FVC or VCB/50% predicted, MIP B/30 cm H2O or MEP B/30 cm H2O, pCO2 /45 mmHg, serum bicarbonate /28 mmol/L38).
