#separator:tab
#html:false
Goodpasture syndrome:    Most common epidemiology - young adult males (most often smokers)   Type of hypersensitivity - [...]   Pathophysiology - [...]   Presentation - hemoptysis (1st), then rapidly progresses to acute glomerulonephritis --> proteinuria and renal failure	Goodpasture syndrome:    Most common epidemiology - young adult males (most often smokers)   Type of hypersensitivity - II   Pathophysiology - antibasement membrane antibodies (of type IV collagen in alveoli and glomeruli) --> complement fixation --> recruitment of leukocytes that damage the membranes   Presentation - hemoptysis (1st), then rapidly progresses to acute glomerulonephritis --> proteinuria and renal failure
Goodpasture syndrome:    Most common epidemiology - [...]   Type of hypersensitivity - II   Pathophysiology - antibasement membrane antibodies (of type IV collagen in alveoli and glomeruli) --> complement fixation --> recruitment of leukocytes that damage the membranes   Presentation - hemoptysis (1st), then rapidly progresses to acute glomerulonephritis --> proteinuria and renal failure	Goodpasture syndrome:    Most common epidemiology - young adult males (most often smokers)   Type of hypersensitivity - II   Pathophysiology - antibasement membrane antibodies (of type IV collagen in alveoli and glomeruli) --> complement fixation --> recruitment of leukocytes that damage the membranes   Presentation - hemoptysis (1st), then rapidly progresses to acute glomerulonephritis --> proteinuria and renal failure
[...]:    Most common epidemiology - young adult males (most often smokers)   Type of hypersensitivity - II   Pathophysiology - antibasement membrane antibodies (of type IV collagen in alveoli and glomeruli) --> complement fixation --> recruitment of leukocytes that damage the membranes   Presentation - hemoptysis (1st), then rapidly progresses to acute glomerulonephritis --> proteinuria and renal failure	Goodpasture syndrome:    Most common epidemiology - young adult males (most often smokers)   Type of hypersensitivity - II   Pathophysiology - antibasement membrane antibodies (of type IV collagen in alveoli and glomeruli) --> complement fixation --> recruitment of leukocytes that damage the membranes   Presentation - hemoptysis (1st), then rapidly progresses to acute glomerulonephritis --> proteinuria and renal failure
Goodpasture syndrome:    Most common epidemiology - young adult males (most often smokers)   Type of hypersensitivity - II   Pathophysiology - antibasement membrane antibodies (of type IV collagen in alveoli and glomeruli) --> complement fixation --> recruitment of leukocytes that damage the membranes   Presentation - [...]	Goodpasture syndrome:    Most common epidemiology - young adult males (most often smokers)   Type of hypersensitivity - II   Pathophysiology - antibasement membrane antibodies (of type IV collagen in alveoli and glomeruli) --> complement fixation --> recruitment of leukocytes that damage the membranes   Presentation - hemoptysis (1st), then rapidly progresses to acute glomerulonephritis --> proteinuria and renal failure
Post-streptococcal acute proliferative glomerulonephritis:    Typical epidemiology/history - [...]   Type of hypersensitivity - III   Pathophysiology - deposition of immune complexes in glomeruli   Presentation - nephritic syndrome: hematuria, moderate proteinuria and hypertension   Blood values - decreased complement levels Urinalysis - Nephritic syndrome: blood, protein, RBC casts, protein casts	Post-streptococcal acute proliferative glomerulonephritis:    Typical epidemiology/history - children 6 -10 years old, 1-4 weeks following a strep throat or impetigo (type 1, 4, and 12)   Type of hypersensitivity - III   Pathophysiology - deposition of immune complexes in glomeruli   Presentation - nephritic syndrome: hematuria, moderate proteinuria and hypertension   Blood values - decreased complement levels Urinalysis - Nephritic syndrome: blood, protein, RBC casts, protein casts
Post-streptococcal acute proliferative glomerulonephritis:    Typical epidemiology/history - children 6 -10 years old, 1-4 weeks following a strep throat or impetigo (type 1, 4, and 12)   Type of hypersensitivity - III   Pathophysiology - deposition of immune complexes in glomeruli   Presentation - [...]   Blood values - decreased complement levels Urinalysis - Nephritic syndrome: blood, protein, RBC casts, protein casts	Post-streptococcal acute proliferative glomerulonephritis:    Typical epidemiology/history - children 6 -10 years old, 1-4 weeks following a strep throat or impetigo (type 1, 4, and 12)   Type of hypersensitivity - III   Pathophysiology - deposition of immune complexes in glomeruli   Presentation - nephritic syndrome: hematuria, moderate proteinuria and hypertension   Blood values - decreased complement levels Urinalysis - Nephritic syndrome: blood, protein, RBC casts, protein casts
Post-streptococcal acute proliferative glomerulonephritis:    Typical epidemiology/history - children 6 -10 years old, 1-4 weeks following a strep throat or impetigo (type 1, 4, and 12)   Type of hypersensitivity - III   Pathophysiology - deposition of immune complexes in glomeruli   Presentation - nephritic syndrome: hematuria, moderate proteinuria and hypertension   Blood values - [...]creased complement levels Urinalysis - [...]	Post-streptococcal acute proliferative glomerulonephritis:    Typical epidemiology/history - children 6 -10 years old, 1-4 weeks following a strep throat or impetigo (type 1, 4, and 12)   Type of hypersensitivity - III   Pathophysiology - deposition of immune complexes in glomeruli   Presentation - nephritic syndrome: hematuria, moderate proteinuria and hypertension   Blood values - decreased complement levels Urinalysis - Nephritic syndrome: blood, protein, RBC casts, protein casts
Post-streptococcal acute proliferative glomerulonephritis:    Typical epidemiology/history - children 6 -10 years old, 1-4 weeks following a strep throat or impetigo (type 1, 4, and 12)   Type of hypersensitivity - [...]   Pathophysiology - [...]   Presentation - nephritic syndrome: hematuria, moderate proteinuria and hypertension   Blood values - decreased complement levels Urinalysis - Nephritic syndrome: blood, protein, RBC casts, protein casts	Post-streptococcal acute proliferative glomerulonephritis:    Typical epidemiology/history - children 6 -10 years old, 1-4 weeks following a strep throat or impetigo (type 1, 4, and 12)   Type of hypersensitivity - III   Pathophysiology - deposition of immune complexes in glomeruli   Presentation - nephritic syndrome: hematuria, moderate proteinuria and hypertension   Blood values - decreased complement levels Urinalysis - Nephritic syndrome: blood, protein, RBC casts, protein casts
[...]:    Typical epidemiology/history - children 6 -10 years old, 1-4 weeks following a strep throat or impetigo (type 1, 4, and 12)   Type of hypersensitivity - III   Pathophysiology - deposition of immune complexes in glomeruli   Presentation - nephritic syndrome: hematuria, moderate proteinuria and hypertension   Blood values - decreased complement levels Urinalysis - Nephritic syndrome: blood, protein, RBC casts, protein casts	Post-streptococcal acute proliferative glomerulonephritis:    Typical epidemiology/history - children 6 -10 years old, 1-4 weeks following a strep throat or impetigo (type 1, 4, and 12)   Type of hypersensitivity - III   Pathophysiology - deposition of immune complexes in glomeruli   Presentation - nephritic syndrome: hematuria, moderate proteinuria and hypertension   Blood values - decreased complement levels Urinalysis - Nephritic syndrome: blood, protein, RBC casts, protein casts
"On kidney biopsy, ""Wire loop lesions"" with extensive deposits.    What do you suspect?"	SLE
Causes of membranous nephropathy (4)	1) Idiopathic(85%)  2) Solid timor malignancy 3) Immune complex disease 4) Hep B, syphillis, malaria and gold.
Cause of spike and dome appearance on kidney biopsy	membranous glomerulonephritis
Which glomerulonephritis has antibodies to phospholipid A2 receptor	membranous glomerulonephritis
Describe 6 clinical features of renal tubular acidosis type I	Distal Renal Tubular Acidosis:  1) Normal anion gap metabolic acidosis  2) Hypercalciuria and calcium phosphate stones (not oxalate) 3) Hypokalemia 4) Nephrocalcinosis (deposition within the kidney) 5) Increased bone turnover causing rickets (children) and osteomalacia (adults) 6) Inability to acidify the urine to a pH of less than 5.3 (alkaline urine). Due to failure of secretion of H+ into the lumen of the nephron
What are the causes of RTA I (Distal)	1) Toxins such as amphotericin B, ifosfamide and lithium 2) Collagen vascular diseases (Sjogren's, Ehler-Danlos, less common SLE and RA) 3) Cirrhosis 4) Sickle Cell anemia
What is the pathophysiology of Acidosis in RTA I	Acidosis caused by a failure of H+ secretion into lumen of nephron by the alpha intercalated cells of the medullary collecting duct of the distal nephron
Describe 4 clinical features of renal tubular acidosis type II	1) Normal anion gap metabolic acidosis 2) Glycosuria (normal BSL) 3) Hypophosphatemia - increased bone turnover leading to rickets (children) or osteomalacia (adults) 4) Inability to acidify the urine to a pH of less than 5.3, milder then type I
What is the cause and pathophysiology of Acidosis in RTA IV	Type 4 RTA due to aldosterone deficiency has multiple etiologies. Hyporeninemic hypoaldosteronism is the most common cause and is usually asscoiated with mild to moderate renal insufficency. It is most commonly found in diabetes nephropathy and chronic interstitial nephritis. NSAIDS, ACE inhibitors, trimetoprim and heparin can all reduce aldosterone production and produce a type 4 RTA. Drug-induced type 4 RTA is usually seen in patients with pre-existing renal insufficiency.   Aldosterone deficiency or resistance impairs the secretion of hydrogen and potassium ion resulting in acidosis and hyperkalemia. The hyperkalemia is usually very prominent in this condition and has an important role in metabolic acidosis by impairing ammonium production and acid excretion in the urine. The hyperkalemia in this setting impairs NH4+ production in the proximal tubule by inducing a state of intracellular alkalosis within the tubular cell. This occurs due to the transcellular exchange of potassium for hydrogen resulting in the exit of hydrogen ion from the cell.     The development of intracellular alkalosis reduces NH4+ secretion by the proximal tubular, which in combination with decreased hydrogen secretion distally, result in decreased ammonium excretion and decreased net acid excretion. Reversing this process by correcting the hyperkalemia often leads to increased NH4+ excretion and correction of the metabolic acidosis  1) Normal anion-gap metabolic acidosis 2) Cardinal feature: hyperkalemia 3) Normal urine pH
Features of RTA IV	Cardinal feature is hyperkalemia. Normal anion gap metabolic acidosis. Caused by aldosterone deficiency. Hyporeninemic hypoaldosteronism in cases of diabetic or hypertensive nephropathy. Or can occur with spironolactone use
Causes of RTA IV	Essentially hyporeninemic hypoaldosteronism 1) Diabetic nephropathy 2) Chronic interstitial nephritis 3) Hypertensive nephropathy 4) Congenital adrenal hyperplasia 5) NSAIDs 6) ACE/ARBII 7) Heparin 8) Spironolactone Major distinguishing feature is that of hyperkalemia.
How is membranoproliferative different from membranous GN on biopsy?	mesangial cell proliferation in MPGN and membrane thickening
Hb target in CKD	110 to 120 g/L Commence EPO therapy when Hb is below 100g/L
What glomerulonephritis is present when the patient has a nephrotic picture (4gr/day, hyperlipidemia) but some red cells and red cell casts? ie. mixed picture?	Membranoproliferative glomerulonephritis Typical causes include hepatitis B/C, SLE, cryoglobulinemia, HIV, Leukemia, partial lipodystrophy
What is the pathophysiology of adynamic bone disease?	Uremia  In uremia, bone tissue is resistant to PTH, so that a relative reduction of its levels is able to induce the emergence of a low turnover state.  Adynamic bone is defined by the presence of low or absent bone formation as determined by tetracycline uptake into bone, in conjunction with a paucity of bone-forming osteoblasts and bone-resorbing osteoclasts. Diagnosed via bone biopsy. Typically, adynamic bone disease has low PTH and low ALP. ABD should probably be considered a skeletal condition induced by overtreatment of secondary hyperparathyroidism and not a disease. The 'diagnosis' of which is usually made by a relatively low or normal parathyroid hormone (PTH) level.
Difference between contrast-induced nephropathy (CIN) and cholesterol crystal nephropathy (CCN)	1) Clinical course: CIN occurs within 48 hours and resolves within 3-5 days while CCN will have an incomplete recovery and stuttering course due to further cholesteral crystal showers. 2) Hypocomplementemia and eosinophilia can be seen with CCN but not CIN 3) Poor long-term prognosis in CCN, good prognosis in CIN
Which is the site of action mediating aminoglycoside-induced nephrotoxicity?A) GlomerulusB) Proximal convoluted tubuleC) Loop of henleD) Distal convoluted tubuleE) Collecting ducts	B) Proximal Convoluted Tubule The brush border of the PCT contains megalin, which binds aminoglycosides and brings them into the cell
Causes of RTA type II (Proximal)	1) Fanconi's anemia 2) Light Chain nephropathy / Multiple Myeloma 3) Drugs: Acetezolamide, sulfonamides and ifosphamide (does RTA I aswell)
Gitelman syndrome Inheritance - [...]   Clinical Features - hypokalemia, hypomagnesemia, normal to low blood pressure, hypocalciuria and increased blood pH (alkalosis).    Pathophysiology - Loss of function mutations of the thiazide sensitive sodium-chloride symporter (also known as NCC, NCCT, or TSC) located in the distal convoluted tubule.   Differentiating Features (From Bartter's) - hypocalciuria, and an abnormal sodium-chloride symporter in distal convoluted tubule.	Gitelman syndrome Inheritance - Autosomal recessive    Clinical Features - hypokalemia, hypomagnesemia, normal to low blood pressure, hypocalciuria and increased blood pH (alkalosis).    Pathophysiology - Loss of function mutations of the thiazide sensitive sodium-chloride symporter (also known as NCC, NCCT, or TSC) located in the distal convoluted tubule.   Differentiating Features (From Bartter's) - hypocalciuria, and an abnormal sodium-chloride symporter in distal convoluted tubule.  People suffering from Gitelman's syndrome present symptoms which are identical to those of patients who are on thiazide diuretics   Everything is low here.
Gitelman syndrome Inheritance - Autosomal recessive    Clinical Features - [...]kalemia, [...]magnesemia, [...] blood pressure, [...]calciuria and [...] blood pH [...].    Pathophysiology - Loss of function mutations of the [...] located in the [...].   Differentiating Features (From Bartter's) - hypocalciuria, and an abnormal sodium-chloride symporter in distal convoluted tubule.	Gitelman syndrome Inheritance - Autosomal recessive    Clinical Features - hypokalemia, hypomagnesemia, normal to low blood pressure, hypocalciuria and increased blood pH (alkalosis).    Pathophysiology - Loss of function mutations of the thiazide sensitive sodium-chloride symporter (also known as NCC, NCCT, or TSC) located in the distal convoluted tubule.   Differentiating Features (From Bartter's) - hypocalciuria, and an abnormal sodium-chloride symporter in distal convoluted tubule.  People suffering from Gitelman's syndrome present symptoms which are identical to those of patients who are on thiazide diuretics   Everything is low here.
Bartter Syndrome   Inheritance - [...]  Pathophysiology - Defect in the thick ascending limb of the loop of Henle.    Clinical Features - hypokalemia, hypomagnesemia, increased blood pH (alkalosis), and normal to low blood pressure.    There are two types of Bartter syndrome - neonatal and classic.   Differentiating Features (From Gittleman's) - high renin, high aldosterone, hypercalciuria, and an abnormal Na+-K+-2Cl− transporter in the thick ascending limb of the loop of Henle.	Bartter Syndrome   Inheritance - Autosomal recessive   Pathophysiology - Defect in the thick ascending limb of the loop of Henle.    Clinical Features - hypokalemia, hypomagnesemia, increased blood pH (alkalosis), and normal to low blood pressure.    There are two types of Bartter syndrome - neonatal and classic.   Differentiating Features (From Gittleman's) - high renin, high aldosterone, hypercalciuria, and an abnormal Na+-K+-2Cl− transporter in the thick ascending limb of the loop of Henle.  People suffering from Bartter syndrome present symptoms that are identical to those of patients who are on loop diuretics like furosemide.   People with bARTTeR have raised Aldosterone and Renin, and defective Transporter in the Thick ascending loop of henle, Raised calcium in the urine   Everything is low except the calciuria
Bartter Syndrome   Inheritance - Autosomal recessive   Pathophysiology - Defect in the thick ascending limb of the loop of Henle.    Clinical Features - [...], [...], [...], and [...].    There are two types of Bartter syndrome - neonatal and classic.   Differentiating Features (From Gittleman's) - high renin, high aldosterone, hypercalciuria, and an abnormal Na+-K+-2Cl− transporter in the thick ascending limb of the loop of Henle.	Bartter Syndrome   Inheritance - Autosomal recessive   Pathophysiology - Defect in the thick ascending limb of the loop of Henle.    Clinical Features - hypokalemia, hypomagnesemia, increased blood pH (alkalosis), and normal to low blood pressure.    There are two types of Bartter syndrome - neonatal and classic.   Differentiating Features (From Gittleman's) - high renin, high aldosterone, hypercalciuria, and an abnormal Na+-K+-2Cl− transporter in the thick ascending limb of the loop of Henle.  People suffering from Bartter syndrome present symptoms that are identical to those of patients who are on loop diuretics like furosemide.   People with bARTTeR have raised Aldosterone and Renin, and defective Transporter in the Thick ascending loop of henle, Raised calcium in the urine   Everything is low except the calciuria
Bartter Syndrome   Inheritance - Autosomal recessive   Pathophysiology - Defect in the thick ascending limb of the loop of Henle.    Clinical Features - hypokalemia, hypomagnesemia, increased blood pH (alkalosis), and normal to low blood pressure.    There are two types of Bartter syndrome - [...] and [...].   Differentiating Features (From Gittleman's) - high renin, high aldosterone, hypercalciuria, and an abnormal Na+-K+-2Cl− transporter in the thick ascending limb of the loop of Henle.	Bartter Syndrome   Inheritance - Autosomal recessive   Pathophysiology - Defect in the thick ascending limb of the loop of Henle.    Clinical Features - hypokalemia, hypomagnesemia, increased blood pH (alkalosis), and normal to low blood pressure.    There are two types of Bartter syndrome - neonatal and classic.   Differentiating Features (From Gittleman's) - high renin, high aldosterone, hypercalciuria, and an abnormal Na+-K+-2Cl− transporter in the thick ascending limb of the loop of Henle.  People suffering from Bartter syndrome present symptoms that are identical to those of patients who are on loop diuretics like furosemide.   People with bARTTeR have raised Aldosterone and Renin, and defective Transporter in the Thick ascending loop of henle, Raised calcium in the urine   Everything is low except the calciuria
Bartter Syndrome   Inheritance - Autosomal recessive   Pathophysiology - Defect in the thick ascending limb of the loop of Henle.    Clinical Features - hypokalemia, hypomagnesemia, increased blood pH (alkalosis), and normal to low blood pressure.    There are two types of Bartter syndrome - neonatal and classic.   Differentiating Features (From Gittleman's) - [...], high aldosterone, hypercalciuria, and an abnormal Na+-K+-2Cl− transporter in the thick ascending limb of the loop of Henle.	Bartter Syndrome   Inheritance - Autosomal recessive   Pathophysiology - Defect in the thick ascending limb of the loop of Henle.    Clinical Features - hypokalemia, hypomagnesemia, increased blood pH (alkalosis), and normal to low blood pressure.    There are two types of Bartter syndrome - neonatal and classic.   Differentiating Features (From Gittleman's) - high renin, high aldosterone, hypercalciuria, and an abnormal Na+-K+-2Cl− transporter in the thick ascending limb of the loop of Henle.  People suffering from Bartter syndrome present symptoms that are identical to those of patients who are on loop diuretics like furosemide.   People with bARTTeR have raised Aldosterone and Renin, and defective Transporter in the Thick ascending loop of henle, Raised calcium in the urine   Everything is low except the calciuria
Bartter Syndrome   Inheritance - Autosomal recessive   Pathophysiology - [...].    Clinical Features - hypokalemia, hypomagnesemia, increased blood pH (alkalosis), and normal to low blood pressure.    There are two types of Bartter syndrome - neonatal and classic.   Differentiating Features (From Gittleman's) - high renin, [...], hypercalciuria, and an abnormal Na+-K+-2Cl− transporter in the thick ascending limb of the loop of Henle.	Bartter Syndrome   Inheritance - Autosomal recessive   Pathophysiology - Defect in the thick ascending limb of the loop of Henle.    Clinical Features - hypokalemia, hypomagnesemia, increased blood pH (alkalosis), and normal to low blood pressure.    There are two types of Bartter syndrome - neonatal and classic.   Differentiating Features (From Gittleman's) - high renin, high aldosterone, hypercalciuria, and an abnormal Na+-K+-2Cl− transporter in the thick ascending limb of the loop of Henle.  People suffering from Bartter syndrome present symptoms that are identical to those of patients who are on loop diuretics like furosemide.   People with bARTTeR have raised Aldosterone and Renin, and defective Transporter in the Thick ascending loop of henle, Raised calcium in the urine   Everything is low except the calciuria
Bartter Syndrome   Inheritance - Autosomal recessive   Pathophysiology - Defect in the thick ascending limb of the loop of Henle.    Clinical Features - hypokalemia, hypomagnesemia, increased blood pH (alkalosis), and normal to low blood pressure.    There are two types of Bartter syndrome - neonatal and classic.   Differentiating Features (From Gittleman's) - high renin, high aldosterone, [...], and an abnormal Na+-K+-2Cl− transporter in the thick ascending limb of the loop of Henle.	Bartter Syndrome   Inheritance - Autosomal recessive   Pathophysiology - Defect in the thick ascending limb of the loop of Henle.    Clinical Features - hypokalemia, hypomagnesemia, increased blood pH (alkalosis), and normal to low blood pressure.    There are two types of Bartter syndrome - neonatal and classic.   Differentiating Features (From Gittleman's) - high renin, high aldosterone, hypercalciuria, and an abnormal Na+-K+-2Cl− transporter in the thick ascending limb of the loop of Henle.  People suffering from Bartter syndrome present symptoms that are identical to those of patients who are on loop diuretics like furosemide.   People with bARTTeR have raised Aldosterone and Renin, and defective Transporter in the Thick ascending loop of henle, Raised calcium in the urine   Everything is low except the calciuria
Bartter Syndrome   Inheritance - Autosomal recessive   Pathophysiology - Defect in the thick ascending limb of the loop of Henle.    Clinical Features - hypokalemia, hypomagnesemia, increased blood pH (alkalosis), and normal to low blood pressure.    There are two types of Bartter syndrome - neonatal and classic.   Differentiating Features (From Gittleman's) - high renin, high aldosterone, hypercalciuria, and an [...].	Bartter Syndrome   Inheritance - Autosomal recessive   Pathophysiology - Defect in the thick ascending limb of the loop of Henle.    Clinical Features - hypokalemia, hypomagnesemia, increased blood pH (alkalosis), and normal to low blood pressure.    There are two types of Bartter syndrome - neonatal and classic.   Differentiating Features (From Gittleman's) - high renin, high aldosterone, hypercalciuria, and an abnormal Na+-K+-2Cl− transporter in the thick ascending limb of the loop of Henle.  People suffering from Bartter syndrome present symptoms that are identical to those of patients who are on loop diuretics like furosemide.   People with bARTTeR have raised Aldosterone and Renin, and defective Transporter in the Thick ascending loop of henle, Raised calcium in the urine   Everything is low except the calciuria
Gitelman syndrome Inheritance - Autosomal recessive    Clinical Features - hypokalemia, hypomagnesemia, normal to low blood pressure, hypocalciuria and increased blood pH (alkalosis).    Pathophysiology - Loss of function mutations of the thiazide sensitive sodium-chloride symporter (also known as NCC, NCCT, or TSC) located in the distal convoluted tubule.   Differentiating Features (From Bartter's) - [...], and an abnormal sodium-chloride symporter in distal convoluted tubule.	Gitelman syndrome Inheritance - Autosomal recessive    Clinical Features - hypokalemia, hypomagnesemia, normal to low blood pressure, hypocalciuria and increased blood pH (alkalosis).    Pathophysiology - Loss of function mutations of the thiazide sensitive sodium-chloride symporter (also known as NCC, NCCT, or TSC) located in the distal convoluted tubule.   Differentiating Features (From Bartter's) - hypocalciuria, and an abnormal sodium-chloride symporter in distal convoluted tubule.  People suffering from Gitelman's syndrome present symptoms which are identical to those of patients who are on thiazide diuretics   Everything is low here.
Gitelman syndrome Inheritance - Autosomal recessive    Clinical Features - hypokalemia, hypomagnesemia, normal to low blood pressure, hypocalciuria and increased blood pH (alkalosis).    Pathophysiology - Loss of function mutations of the thiazide sensitive sodium-chloride symporter (also known as NCC, NCCT, or TSC) located in the distal convoluted tubule.   Differentiating Features (From Bartter's) - hypocalciuria, and an [...].	Gitelman syndrome Inheritance - Autosomal recessive    Clinical Features - hypokalemia, hypomagnesemia, normal to low blood pressure, hypocalciuria and increased blood pH (alkalosis).    Pathophysiology - Loss of function mutations of the thiazide sensitive sodium-chloride symporter (also known as NCC, NCCT, or TSC) located in the distal convoluted tubule.   Differentiating Features (From Bartter's) - hypocalciuria, and an abnormal sodium-chloride symporter in distal convoluted tubule.  People suffering from Gitelman's syndrome present symptoms which are identical to those of patients who are on thiazide diuretics   Everything is low here.
Transplant Medicine    Compatibility: [...] is of much less importance than [...]   Hyperacute Rejection is an antibody-mediated reaction to endothelial cells  Acute rejection, the most important cause of rejection, is a Cytotoxic T-cell-mediated reaction, and the target of the immune response is the donor MHC class I molecules   Chronic Rejection occurs due to fibrosis of the transplanted tissue's blood vessels leading to arteriosclerosis and ischemia.	Transplant Medicine    Compatibility: ABO compatibility is of much less importance than MHC compatibility   Hyperacute Rejection is an antibody-mediated reaction to endothelial cells  Acute rejection, the most important cause of rejection, is a Cytotoxic T-cell-mediated reaction, and the target of the immune response is the donor MHC class I molecules   Chronic Rejection occurs due to fibrosis of the transplanted tissue's blood vessels leading to arteriosclerosis and ischemia.
What are the indications for a renal biopsy in a case of asymptomatic microscopic hematuria? [...] and [...]	What are the indications for a renal biopsy in a case of asymptomatic microscopic hematuria? Proteinuria and renal insufficiency
The strongest predictors of ESRF in a patient with IgA nephropathy (in order of magnitude): 1) [...] 2) [...] 3) [...]	The strongest predictors of ESRF in a patient with IgA nephropathy (in order of magnitude): 1) Protein excretion 2) Creatinine Level 3) Blood Pressure
Differentiate the histological features of hyperacute (antibody-mediated) from acute (cell-mediated) rejection:   Hyperacute Rejection (Anti-body mediated): [...]   Acute Rejection (Cell-mediated): [...]	Differentiate the histological features of hyperacute (antibody-mediated) from acute (cell-mediated) rejection:   Hyperacute Rejection (Anti-body mediated): Widespread glomerular capillar thrombosis & necrosis and frequent areas of interstitial hemorrhage. C4d-staining (+)   Acute Rejection (Cell-mediated): Tubulitis and intimal arteritis are the primary lesions. Tubulitis occurs due to the interstitial infiltration with mononuclear cells that destroy the tubular basement membrane.   Acute antibody mediated rejection:  Antibodies that can mediate rejection include those against HLA molecules, endothelial-cell antigens, and ABO blood-group antigens on endothelial cells and red cells. Most recipients do not have antibodies against HLA molecules before transplantation unless they were sensitized by exposure to alloantigens through pregnancy, blood transfusion, or previous transplantation.  Chronic Cell-mediated rejection:  The most common form of acute allograft rejection is initiated when donor alloantigens are presented to the T lymphocytes of the recipient by antigen-presenting cells (APCs). Immature dendritic cells within the graft carry donor antigens from the transplanted organ to the recipient’s draining lymph nodes and spleen; during their journey, these antigens mature into APCs. The recipient’s antigen-presenting dendritic cells also participate and circulate through the graft. The APCs then home to lymphoid organs, where they activate the recipient’s T cells. These T cells differentiate into various subgroups and return to the graft, where they take part in destroying the transplanted organ.
The mechanism of cyclosporin nephrotoxicity	Obliterative arteriopathy suggesting primary endothelial damage Ischemic collapse or scarring of the glomeruli secondary to the abovementioned obliterative arteriopathy which leads to vacuolization of the tubules and global and focal segmental glomerulosclerosis.
Management of Focal Segmental Glomerulosclerosis	ACE/ARBII + Prednisolone Cyclophosphomide if it continues to worsen. (Mycophenolate Mofetil is second line)
Types of membranoproliferative glomerulonephritis	Clinical Classification: 1) Immune complex-mediated MPGN - Activation of the classical complement pathway 2) Complement-mediated MPGN - Activation/dysregulation of the alternative complement pathway   Older Classification 1) Type I - Immune complexes are found in the mesangium and subendothelial spaces, and they trigger complement activation and the release of cytokines and chemokines. 2) Type II - dense deposit disease, the pathogenesis of MPGN type II is not known. 3) Type III - The glomerular deposits contain C3, C5, and properdin, indicating activation of the alternative complement pathway.    Hypocomplementemia is a characteristic finding with all types of membranoproliferative glomerulonephritis (MPGN). Low C3 levels are present in approximately 75% of patients with this condition.  Two Pathologies of Membranoproliferative GN 1) Thickened glomerular basement membrane (GBM) due to deposition of immune complexes and/or complement factors, interposition of the mesangial cell and other cellular elements between the GBM and the endothelial cell (forming the tram-track appearance), and new basement membrane formation. 2) Increased mesangial and endocapillary cellularity, often leading to a lobular appearance of the glomerular tuft. The increase in cellularity results from both proliferation of mesangial cells and influx of circulating monocytes.
Marker of FSGS	suPAR  suPAR levels are increased in two thirds of pediatric and adult patients with biopsy-confirmed FSGS
Recurrence rates of glomerulonephritis recurrence post-transplant	HUS - 0% MPGN I - 25% Membranous - 30%FSGS - 40% IgA Nephropathy/Henoch-Schonlein Purpura - 50% (rarely causes renal failure though) Diabetic Nephropathy - decades Type II MPGN (dense-deposit disease) - 90% Primary Hyperoxaluria - 100% if liver not also transplanted  1.  Primary FSGS:  about 40% of cases will recur, many of which ultimately lead to allograft failure.  Plasma exchange and aggressive immunosuppression may be of value.   2.  Primary membranous nephropathy:  about 30% recurrence rate, though its severity is less than that of primary FSGS typically.  Also, de novo membranous nephropathy occurs in 1-2% of all transplants.   3.  MPGN:  type II MPGN has a recurrence rate of about 90%, whereas type I MPGN has a recurrence rate of only about 25%.   4.  HUS:  the D+ type of HUS typically does not recur post-transplant; however, the congenital forms of HUS (e.g. mutations in factor H, grouped amongst the D-type of HUS) recurs frequently.   5.  IgA Nephropathy/Henoch-Schonlein Purpura: recurs about 50% of the time but seldom causes allograft dysfunction. Silent IgA mesangial deposits are found in most transplant grafts.   6.  Primary hyperoxaluria:  this disease occurs essentially 100% of the time unless it is performed as a dual liver-kidney transplant.   7.  Diabetic nephropathy:  like IgA Nephropathy, pathologic hallmarks of diabetic nephropathy are commonly observed post-transplant, but this damage typically takes years, if not decades, to become clinically significant.
Difference in the treatment of primary and secondary focal segmental glomerulosclerosis	About 50 to 60 percent of patients with primary FSGS respond to immunosuppressive agents such as glucocorticoids, while secondary FSGS is best treated with modalities aimed at lowering the intraglomerular pressure, such as angiotensin inhibitors.
Key differentiating factor between membranous and membranoproliferative GN	Membranous has normal compliment levels while membranoproliferative has low compliment in all types
Banff Classification of Acute Rejection	StratificationHistological Findings IACases with significant interstitial infiltration (>25% of parenchyma affected) and foci of moderate tubulitis (>4 mononuclear cells/tubular cross section or group of 10 tubular cells)IBCases with significant interstitial infiltration (>25% of parenchyma affected) and foci of severe tubulitis (>10 mononuclear cells/tubular cross-section or group of 10 tubular cells)IIACases with mild-to-moderate intimal arteritis IIBCases with severe intimal arteritis comprising >25% of the luminal area IIICases with ‘transmural’ arteritis and/or arterial fibrinoid change and necrosis of medial smooth muscle cells with accompanying lymphocytic inflammation (v3)   Intimal arteritis is worse prognostically than tubulitis
Transplant Medicine    Compatibility: ABO compatibility is of much less importance than MHC compatibility   Hyperacute Rejection is [...]-mediated reaction to [...] cells  Acute rejection, the most important cause of rejection, is a Cytotoxic T-cell-mediated reaction, and the target of the immune response is the donor MHC class I molecules   Chronic Rejection occurs due to fibrosis of the transplanted tissue's blood vessels leading to arteriosclerosis and ischemia.	Transplant Medicine    Compatibility: ABO compatibility is of much less importance than MHC compatibility   Hyperacute Rejection is an antibody-mediated reaction to endothelial cells  Acute rejection, the most important cause of rejection, is a Cytotoxic T-cell-mediated reaction, and the target of the immune response is the donor MHC class I molecules   Chronic Rejection occurs due to fibrosis of the transplanted tissue's blood vessels leading to arteriosclerosis and ischemia.
Transplant Medicine    Compatibility: ABO compatibility is of much less importance than MHC compatibility   Hyperacute Rejection is an antibody-mediated reaction to endothelial cells  Acute rejection, the most important cause of rejection, is [...]-mediated reaction, and the target of the immune response is the [...]   Chronic Rejection occurs due to fibrosis of the transplanted tissue's blood vessels leading to arteriosclerosis and ischemia.	Transplant Medicine    Compatibility: ABO compatibility is of much less importance than MHC compatibility   Hyperacute Rejection is an antibody-mediated reaction to endothelial cells  Acute rejection, the most important cause of rejection, is a Cytotoxic T-cell-mediated reaction, and the target of the immune response is the donor MHC class I molecules   Chronic Rejection occurs due to fibrosis of the transplanted tissue's blood vessels leading to arteriosclerosis and ischemia.
Transplant Medicine    Compatibility: ABO compatibility is of much less importance than MHC compatibility   Hyperacute Rejection is an antibody-mediated reaction to endothelial cells  Acute rejection, the most important cause of rejection, is a Cytotoxic T-cell-mediated reaction, and the target of the immune response is the donor MHC class I molecules   Chronic Rejection occurs due to [...] of the transplanted tissue's blood vessels leading to [...].	Transplant Medicine    Compatibility: ABO compatibility is of much less importance than MHC compatibility   Hyperacute Rejection is an antibody-mediated reaction to endothelial cells  Acute rejection, the most important cause of rejection, is a Cytotoxic T-cell-mediated reaction, and the target of the immune response is the donor MHC class I molecules   Chronic Rejection occurs due to fibrosis of the transplanted tissue's blood vessels leading to arteriosclerosis and ischemia.
